tfaret Pe Ste weie—(T7)04/0007/2003—15 REGISTERED NO. DL—(N)04/0007/2003—15

JIRNd a Usa
The Gazette of Gudia

EXTRAORDINARY
aw W—wa@e 1
PART II — Section 1
wifi & wenrfera
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

w 14] ag feeeit, drtar, ard 30, 2015/45 9, 1937 (aH)
No. 14] | NEW DELHI, MONDAY, MARCH 30, 2015/CHAITRA 9, 1937 (SAKA)

wan 4 ft gs ten o ant 3 fred fe ae ate Sac Fw A ta Tae |

Separate paging is given to this Part in order that it may be filed as a separate compilation.

MINISTRY OF LAW AND JUSTICE
(Legislative Department)

New Delhi, the 30th March, 2015/Chaitra 9, 1937 (Saka)

 The following Act of Parliament received the assent of the President on the
30th March, 2015, and is hereby published for general information: —

THE COAL MINES (SPECIAL PROVISIONS) ACT, 2015
No. 11 or 2015
 [30th March, 2015.]

 An Act to provide for allocation of coal mines and vesting of the right, title and
interest in and over the land and mine infrastructure together with mining
leases to successful bidders and allottees with a view to ensure continuity in
coal mining operations and production of coal, and for promoting optimum
utilisation of coal resources consistent with the requirement of the country in
national interest and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.

 Wuereas the Supreme Court vide judgment dated 25th August, 2014 read with its
order dated 24th September, 2014 has cancelled the allocation of coal blocks and issued
directions with regard to such coal blocks and the Central Government in pursuance of the
said directions has to take immediate action to implement the said order;

AND WHEREAS it is expedient in public interest for the Central Government to take
immediate action to allocate coal mines to successful bidders and allottees keeping in view
the energy security of the country and to minimise any impact on core sectors such as steel,
cement and power utilities, which are vital for the development of the nation;

AND WHEREAS Parliament is competent to legislate under entry 54 of List I of the
Seventh Schedule to the Constitution for regulation of mines and mineral development to the
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY

[Part II—

Short title,
extent and
commence-
ment.

 Declaration
as to
expediency
of Union
action.

 Definitions.

extent to which such regulation and development under the control of Union is declared by
Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest.

 Bz it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty-sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows:—
CHAPTERI
PRELIMINARY

1. (J) This Act may be called the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015.

 (2) It extends to the whole of India.

 (3) It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 21st day of October, 2014.

 2. It is hereby declared that it is expedient in the public interest that Union should take
action for the development of Schedule I coal mines and extraction of coal on continuous
basis for optimum utilisation.

 3. (J) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—

(a) “additional levy” means, the additional levy as determined by the Supreme
Court in Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 120 of 2012 as two hundred and ninety-five rupees
per metric tonne of coal extracted;

(b) “allotment order” means the allotment order issued under section 5;
(c) “appointed date” in relation to—

(i) Schedule I coal mines excluding Schedule II coal mines, shall be the
24th day of September, 2014 being the date on which the allocation of coal
blocks to prior allottees stood cancelled; and

(ii) Schedule II coal mines shall be the 1st day of April, 2015 being the date
on which the allocation of coal blocks to prior allottees shall stand cancelled,

in pursuance of the order of the Supreme Court dated the 24th September, 2014 passed
in Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 120 of 2012;

(d) “bank” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (c) of the
Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security
Interest Act, 2002;

(e) “coal mining operations” means any operation undertaken for the purpose
of winning coal;

(f) “company” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (20) of
section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013;

(g) “corporation” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (//) of
section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013;

(h) “financial institution” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in
clause (m) of section 2 of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets
and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002;

(i) “Government company” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in
clause (45) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013;

(j) “mine infrastructure” includes mining infrastructure such as tangible assets
used for coal mining operations, being civil works, workshops, immovable coal winning
equipment, foundations, embankments, pavements, electrical systems, communication
systems, relief centres, site administrative offices, fixed installations, coal handling
arrangements, crushing and conveying systems, railway sidings, pits, shafts, inclines,
underground transport systems, hauling systems (except movable equipment unless

54 of 2002.

18 of 2013.

18 of 2013.

54 of 2002.

18 of 2013.
Sec. 1]

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY

54 of 2002.

 54 of 2002.

 54 of 2002.

 the same is embedded in land for permanent beneficial enjoyment thereof), land
demarcated for afforestation and land for rehabilitation and resettlement of persons
affected by coal mining operations under the relevant law;

(k) “nominated authority” means the authority nominated by the Central
Government under section 6;

(1) “notification” means a notification published in the Official Gazette;
(m) “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under this Act;

(n) “prior allottee” means prior allottee of Schedule I coal mines as listed therein
who had been allotted coal mines between 1993 and 31st day of March, 2011, whose
allotments have been cancelled pursuant to the judgment of the Supreme Court dated
the 25th August, 2014 and its order dated 24th September, 2014 including those
allotments which may have been de-allocated prior to and during the pendency of the
Writ Petition (Criminal) No.120 of 2012.

 Explanation.—In case a mining lease has been executed in favour of a third
party, subsequent to such allocation of Scheduled I coal mines, then, the third party
shall be deemed to be the prior allottee;

(o) “Schedule” means a Schedule appended to this Act;
(p) “Schedule I coal mines” means,—

(i) all the coal mines and coal blocks the allocation of which was cancelled
by the judgment dated 25th August, 2014 and its order dated 24th September,
2014 passed in Writ Petition (Criminal) No.120 of 2012, including those allotments
which may have been de-allocated prior to and during the pendency of the said
Writ Petition;

(ii) all the coal bearing land acquired by the prior allottee and lands, in or
adjacent to the coal mines used for coal mining operations acquired by the prior
allottee;

(iii) any existing mine infrastructure as defined in clause (j);
(q) “Schedule II coal mines” means the forty-two Schedule I coal mines listed in

Schedule II which are the coal mines in relation to which the order of the Supreme
Court dated 24th day of September, 2014 was made;

(r) “Schedule III coal mines” means the thirty-two Schedule I coal mines listed in
Schedule III or any other Schedule I coal mine as may be notified under sub-section (2)
of section 7;

(s) “secured creditor” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause
(zd) of section 2 of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and
Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002;

(t) “secured debt” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (ze) of
section 2 of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement
of Security Interest Act, 2002;

(u) “security interest” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause
(zf) of section 2 of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and
Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002;

(v) “specified end-use” means any of the following end-uses and the expression
“specified end-user” shall with its grammatical variations be construed accordingly,—

(i) production of iron and steel;

(ii) generation of power including the generation of power for captive
use;

(iii) washing of coal obtained from a mine;

(iv) cement;
Eligibility to
participate in
auction and
payment of
fees.

 assigned to them in those Acts.
 CHAPTER II
AUCTION AND ALLOTMENT

4. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 5, Schedule I coal mines shall be allocated by
way of public auction in accordance with such rules, and on the payment of such fees which
shall not exceed five crore rupees, as may be prescribed.

 (2) Subject to the provisions in sub-section (3) of this section and section 5, the
Central Government may, for the purpose of granting reconnaissance permit, prospecting
licence or mining lease in respect of any area containing coal, select any of the following
companies through auction by competitive bidding, on such terms and conditions as may be
prescribed—

(a) a Government company or corporation or a joint venture company formed by
such company or corporation or between the Central Government or the State
Government, as the case may be, or any other company incorporated in India; or

(b) acompany or a joint venture company formed by two or more companies,

that carry on coal mining operations in India, in any form either for own consumption, sale or
for any other purpose in accordance with the permit, prospecting licence or mining lease, as
the case may be, and the State Government shall grant such reconnaissance permit,
prospecting licence or mining lease in respect of any area containing coal to such company
as selected through auction by competitive bidding under this section.

 (3) Subject to the provisions of section 5, the following persons who fulfil such norms
as may be prescribed, shall be eligible to bid in an auction of Schedule II coal mines and
Schedule III coal mines and to engage in coal mining operations in the event they are
successful bidders, namely:—

(a) acompany engaged in specified end-use including a company having a coal
linkage which has made such investment as may be prescribed.

 Explanation—A “company with a coal linkage” includes any such company
whose application is pending with the Central Government on the date of commencement
of this Act;

(b) ajoint venture company formed by two or more companies having a common
specified end-use and are independently eligible to bid in accordance with this Act;

(c) a Government company or corporation or a joint venture company formed by
such company or corporation or with any other company having common specified
end-use:

Provided that nothing contained in sub-section (2) shall apply to this sub-section.

 (4) A prior allottee shall be eligible to participate in the auction process subject to
payment of the additional levy within such period as may be prescribed and if the prior
allottee has not paid such levy, then, the prior allottee, its promoter or any of its company of
such prior allottee shall not be eligible to bid either by itself or by way of a joint venture.

 4 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part II—
(v) such other end-use as the Central Government may, by notification,
specify;
(w) “vesting order” means the vesting order issued under section 8.
 (2) Words and expressions used herein and n ot defined, but defined in the Coal
Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957, the Mines and Minerals 20 of 1957.
 (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 and the Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1973 67 of 1957.
including any rules or regulations made thereunder, shall have the meanings, respectively 26 of 1973.
 Sec. 1]

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY

(5) Any prior allottee who is convicted for an offence relating to coal block allocation
and sentenced with imprisonment for more than three years, shall not be eligible to participate
in the auction.

 5. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions contained in sub-sections (/) and (3) of section 4,
the Central Government may allot a Schedule I coal mine to a Government company or
corporation or to a joint venture between two or more Government companies or corporations
or to accompany which has been awarded a power project on the basis of competitive bids for
tariff (including Ultra Mega Power Projects) from specified Schedule I coal mines by making
an allotment order in accordance with such rules as may be prescribed and the State
Government shall grant a reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining lease in
respect of any area containing coal to such company or corporation:

 Provided that the Government company or corporation may carry on Coal Mining in
any form either for its own consumption, sale or for any other purpose in accordance with the
permit, prospecting licence or mining lease, as the case may be:

Provided further that no company other than a Government company or corporation
shall hold more than twenty-six per cent. of the paid-up share capital in the Government
company or corporation or in the joint venture between a Government company or corporation,
either directly or through any of its subsidiary company or associate company:

 Provided also that a joint venture of any two or more Government companies or
corporations shall be prohibited from alienating or transferring any interest, except the taking
of loans or advances from a bank or financial institution, in the joint venture of whatsoever
nature including ownership in favour of a third party.

 (2) No allotment under sub-section (/) shall be made to a prior allottee, if that allottee
has not made the payment of the additional levy within the specified period.

 6. (1) The Central Government shall appoint an officer not below the rank of a Joint
Secretary to the Government of India as the nominated authority who shall act for and on
behalf of the Central Government for the purposes of this Act and shall exercise such powers
as may be prescribed.

 (2) The nominated authority may engage any expert having such qualifications and
experience and on such terms and conditions as may be prescribed to make recommendations
to the authority for the conduct of auction and in drawing up of the vesting order or allotment
order in relation to Schedule I coal mines.

 (3) The Central Government shall act through the nominated authority for the following
purposes, namely:—

(a) conduct the auction process and allotment with the assistance of experts;

(b) execution of the vesting order for transfer and vesting of Schedule I coal
mines pursuant to the auction;

(c) executing the allotment order for any Government company or corporation in
pursuance of section 5;

(d) recording and mutating incorporeal rights of whatsoever nature including,
consents, permissions, permits, approvals, grants, registrations;

(e) collection of auction proceeds, adjustment of preferential payments and
transfer of amount to the respective State Governments where Schedule I coal mine is
located in accordance with the provisions of this Act.

 (4) The nominated authority shall complete the auction or execute the allotment orders
of Schedule I coal mines within such time and in accordance with such rules as may be
prescribed.

 Allotment of
mines to

Government
companies or
corporations.

 Central
Government
to act
through
nominated
authority.
 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY

[Part II—

Power to
classify
certain
Schedule I
coal mines by
Central
Government.

 Nominated
authority to
issue vesting
order or
allotment
order.

 (5) The Central Government may appoint such other officers and staff as it may think
fit to assist the nominated authority.

 (6) The salaries and allowances and other terms and conditions of service of the
nominated authority and such other officers and staff appointed under this section shall be
such as may be prescribed.

 (7) The nominated authority shall be bound by the written direction given by the
Central Government on the quesiton of policy.

 7. (1) The Central Government may, before notifying the particulars of auction, classify
mines identified from Schedule I coal mines as earmarked for the same class of specified end-
uses.

 (2) The Central Government may in public interest, by notification, modify Schedule II
coal mines by adding any other Schedule I coal mine for the purposes of specified end-use.

 8. (J) The nominated authority shall notify the prior allottees of Schedule I coal mines
to enable them to furnish information required for notifying the particulars of Schedule I coal
mines to be auctioned in accordance with such rules as may be prescribed.

 (2) The information required to be furnished under sub-section (/) shall be furnished
within a period of fifteen days from the date of such notice.
 (3) A successful bidder in an auction conducted on a competitive basis in accordance

with such rules as may be prescribed, shall be entitled to the vesting of Schedule I coal mine
for which it bid, pursuant to a vesting order drawn up in accordance with such rules.

 (4) The vesting order shall transfer and vest upon the successful bidder, the following,
namely:—

(a) all the rights, title and interest of the prior allottee, in Schedule I coal mine
concerned with the relevant auction;

(b) entitlement to a mining lease to be granted by the State Government;

(c) any statutory licence, permit, permission, approval or consent required to
undertake coal mining operations in Schedule I coal mines if already issued to the prior
allottee;

(d) rights appurtenant to the approved mining plan of the prior allottee;
(e) any right, entitlement or interest not specifically covered under clauses (a) to (d).

 (5) The nominated authority shall, in consultation with the Central Government,
determine the floor price or reserve price in accordance with such rules as may be prescribed.

 (6) The successful bidder shall, prior to the issuance and execution of a vesting order,
furnish a performance bank guarantee for an amount as notified in relation to Schedule I coal
mine auctioned to such bidder within such time, form and manner as may be prescribed.

 (7) After the issuance of a vesting order under this section and its filing with the
Central Government and with the appropriate authority designated by the respective State
Governments, the successful bidder shall be entitled to take possession of the Schedule I
coal mine without let or hindrance.

 (8) Upon the execution of the vesting order, the successful bidder of the Schedule I
coal mine shall be granted a prospecting licence or a mining lease, as applicable, by the
concerned State Government in accordance with the Mines and Minerals (Development and
Regulation) Act, 1957.

 (9) AGovernment company or corporation or a joint venture company formed by such
company or corporation or between the Central Government or the State Government, as the
case may be, or any other company incorporated in India, allotted a Schedule I coal mine
shall be granted a prospecting licence or a mining lease, as applicable, by the concerned
State Government in accordance with the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation)
Act, 1957.

67 of 1957.

67 of 1957.
Sec. 1]

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY

(10) In relation to Schedule II coal mines, the successful bidder which was a prior
allottee, shall continue coal mining operations after the appointed date in terms of the approved
mining plan, till the mining lease in terms of sub-section (8) is granted, upon the grant of a
vesting order and to that extent, the successful bidder shall be deemed to have been granted
a mining lease till the execution of the mining lease in terms of the said sub-section.

 (11) In relation to Schedule II coal mines, the Government company or corporation
which was a prior allottee can continue coal mining operations after the appointed date in
terms of the approved mining plan, till the mining lease in terms of sub-section (9) is granted,
upon execution of the allotment order and to that extent, the allottee shall be deemed to have
been granted a mining lease till the execution of the mining lease in terms of the said sub-
section.

 (12) The provisions of sub-sections (/) and (2) and sub-sections (4) to (7) (both
inclusive) of this section as applicable to a vesting order, shall mutatis mutandis be also
applicable to an allotment order.

 9. The proceeds arising out of land and mine infrastructure in relation to a Schedule I
coal mine shall be disbursed maintaining, inter alia, the priority of payments in accordance
with the relevant laws and such rules as may be prescribed—

(a) payment to secured creditors for any portion of the secured debt in relation
to a Schedule I, coal mine which is unpaid as on the date of the vesting order;

(b) compensation payable to the prior allottee in respect of the Schedule I coal
mine.

 CHAPTER III
TREATMENT OF RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF PRIOR ALLOTTEES

10. (1) Asuccessful bidder or allottee in respect of Schedule I coal mines, may negotiate
with prior allottee to own or utilise such movable property used in coal mining operations on
such terms and conditions as may be mutually agreed to by them.

 (2) Where a successful bidder or allottee is not vested with any movable property of a
Schedule I coal mine, then, he is not bound by any liabilities or obligations arising out of
such ownership or contractual rights, obligations or liabilities which shall continue to remain
with the prior allottee.

 (3) In the event that the successful bidder or allottee is unable to satisfactorily negotiate
with the prior allottee or any third party who has a contract with the prior allottee for the
movable property, it shall be the obligation of the prior allottee or the third party to remove
such movable property within a period not exceeding thirty days from the date of the vesting
order, or the allotment order, as the case may be, and the successful bidder or allottee shall
not be liable for any damage to such property.

 (4) A successful bidder or allottee which has elected not to purchase or transfer or
continue to use the movable property referred to in sub-section (/), shall prior to the execution
of the vesting order or the allotment order, as the case may be, declare to the nominated
authority that he intends to move and store such movable property of the prior allottee or
such third party and after the date of the vesting order or the allotment order, as the case may
be, the successful bidder or allottee shall be entitled to move and store such movable
property, so as not to cause any impediment for coal mining operations.

 (5) Ifa prior allottee or such third party which has contracted with the prior allottee for
its movable property, fails to remove the movable property which the successful bidder or
allottee has elected not to purchase or use in accordance with sub-section (4), then, after the
per iod of seventy-five days from the vesting order or the allotment order, as the case may be,
a successful bidder or allottee shall be entitled to dispose of such movable property which
may be physically located within Schedule I coal mine, the successful bidder or the allottee,

Priority of
disbursal of
proceeds.

 Utilisation of
movable
property used
in coal
mining
operations.
 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY

[Part II—

Discharge or
adoption of
third party
contracts
with prior
allottees.

 Provisions in
relation to
secured
creditors.

 Void
alienations
and permitted
security
interests.

 Liabilities of
prior
allottees.

 shall, in such event be entitled to appropriate the sale proceeds of such movable property
disposed of to pay for any cost incurred by the successful bidder or allottee, for the removal,
storage, sale and disposal of such movable property, as a first charge over the sale proceeds
of such movable property:

 Provided that the remaining sale proceeds after appropriation of costs, shall be paid by
the successful bidder or allottee to the Central Government towards any compensation that
may be payable to the owner of such movable property sold, upon establishment of title to
such movable property in accordance with such rules as may be prescribed:

Provided further that if a third party contractor to the prior allottee owns such movable
property, then, such third party shall be entitled to prove its right to receive compensation
from the sale proceeds of the movable property sold as per this sub-section, in accordance
with such rules as may be prescribed.

11. (J) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, a successful bidder or allottee, as the case may be, in respect of Schedule I coal mines,
may elect, to adopt and continue such contracts which may be existing with any of the prior
allottees in relation to coal mining operations and the same shall constitute a novation for the
residual term or residual performance of such contract:

 Provided that in such an event, the successful bidder or allottee or the prior allottee
shall notify the nominated authority to include the vesting of any contracts adopted by the
successful bidder.

 (2) In the event that a successful bidder or allottee elects not to adopt or continue with
existing contracts which had been entered into by the prior allottees with third parties, in that
case all such contracts which have not been adopted or continued shall cease to be
enforceable against the successful bidder or allottee in relation to the Schedule I coal mine
and the remedy of such contracting parties shall be against the prior allottees.

 12. (1) The secured creditors of the prior allottees which had any security interest in
any part of the land or mine infrastructure of a Schedule I coal mine shall be entitled to—

(a) continue with such facility agreements and security interest with the prior
allottee if such prior allottee is a successful bidder or allottee; and

(b) in the event that the prior allottee is not a successful bidder or allottee, then
the security interest of such secured creditor shall only be satisfied out of the
compensation payable to such prior allottee, to the extent determined in accordance
with such rules as may be prescribed and the outstanding debt shall be recoverable
from the prior allottee.

 (2) The Central Government shall, taking into consideration the provisions contained
in section 9, prescribe the manner in which the secured creditor shall be paid out of the
compensation in respect of any prior allottee.

13. Any and all alienations of land and mine infrastructure and creation of any
encumbrances of whatsoever nature thereon which relate to Schedule I coal mines, made by
any prior allottee after the 25th day of August, 2014 shall be void, save and except any
registered security interest and charge over the land and mine infrastructure as registered by
a bank or a financial institution or any other secured lender.

 14. (J) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, no proceedings, orders of attachment, distress, receivership, execution or the like,
suits for the recovery of money, enforcement of a security or guarantee (except as otherwise
provided for under this Act), prior to the date of commencement of this Act shall lie, or be
proceeded further with and no remedies shall be available against the successful bidder, or
allottee, as the case may be, or against the land and mine infrastructure in respect of
Schedule I coal mines.
 Sec. 1]

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY

(2) The proceedings as referred to in sub-section (/), shall continue as a personal
remedy against the prior allottee but shall not be maintainable or continued against the land
or mine infrastructure of Schedule I coal mine or the successful bidder or allottee, pursuant
to this Act.

 (3) Every liability of any prior allottee in relation to a Schedule I coal mine in respect of
any period prior to the vesting order or allotment order, shall be the liability of such prior
allottee and shall be enforceable against it and not against the successful bidder or allottee
or the Central Government.

 (4) All unsecured loans shall continue to remain the liability of the prior allottee.

 (5) The additional levy imposed against the prior allottees of Schedule I coal mines
shall continue to remain the liability of such prior allottees and such additional levy shall be
collected by the Central Government in such manner as may be prescribed.

 (6) For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that—

(a) no claim for wages, bonus, royalty, rate, rent, taxes, provident fund, pension,
gratuity or any other dues in relation to a Schedule I coal mine in respect of any period
prior to the date of vesting order or allotment order, as the case may be, shall be
enforceable against the Central Government or the successful bidder or the allottee, as
the case may be;

(b) no award, decree, attachment or order of any court, tribunal or other authority
in relation to any Schedule I coal mine passed prior to the date of commencement of
this Act, in relation to the land and mine infrastructure of Schedule I coal mines, shall
be enforceable against the Central Government or the successful bidder or the allottee,
as the case may be;

(c) no liability for the contravention of any provision of law for the time being in
force, relating to any act or omission prior to the date of vesting order or allotment
order, as the case may be, shall be enforceable against the successful bidder or allottee
or the Central Government.

 15. (/) For the purposes of disbursing the amounts payable to the prior allottees of
Schedule I coal mines, the Central Government shall appoint an officer not below the rank of
Joint Secretary to the Government of India, to be the Commissioner of payments.

 (2) The Central Government may appoint such other officers and staff as it may think
fit to assist the Commissioner and thereupon the Commissioner may authorise one or more of
such officers also to exercise all or any of the powers exercisable by him under this
Act.

 (3) Any officer authorised by the Commissioner to exercise any powers may exercise
those powers in the same manner and with the same effect as if they have been conferred on
him directly by this Act and not by way of authorisation.

 (4) The salaries and allowances and other terms and conditions of service of the
Commissioner and other officers and staff appointed under this section shall be such as may
be prescribed.

 (5) The Central Government shall, within a period of thirty days from such date as may
be notified, pay to the Commissioner for payment to the prior allottee, an amount equal to the
compensation determined by the nominated authority.

 (6) Separate records shall be maintained by the Commissioner in respect of each
Schedule I coal mine in relation to which payments have been made to him under this Act.

 16. (J) The quantum of compensation for the land in relation to Schedule I coal mines
shall be as per the registered sale deeds lodged with the nominated authority in accordance
with such rules as may be prescribed, together with twelve per cent. simple interest from the
date of such purchase or acquisition, till the date of the execution of the vesting order or the
allotment order, as the case may be.

 Commissioner
of payments
to be
appointed and
his powers.

 Valuation of
compensa-
tion for
payment to
prior allottee.
 10

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY

[Part II—

Responsibility
of Central
Government
after
appointed
date.

 Central
Government
to appoint
designated
custodian.

 Powers and
functions of
designated
custodian in
respect of
Schedule IT
coal mines.

 (2) The quantum of compensation for the mine infrastructure in relation to Schedule I
coal mines shall be determined as per the written down value reflected in the statutorily
audited balance sheet of the previous financial year in accordance with such rules and in
such manner as may be prescribed.

 (3) If the successful bidder or allottee is a prior allottee of any of the Schedule I coal
mines, then, the compensation payable to such successful bidder or allottee shall be set off
or adjusted against the auction sum or the allotment sum payable by such successful bidder
or allottee, as the case may be, for any of the Schedule I coal mines.

 (4) The prior allottee shall not be entitled to compensation till the additional levy has
been paid.

 CHAPTER IV
POWERS OF THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT AFTER THE APPOINTED DATE

17. (J) On and from the appointed date, the Central Government or a company owned
by the Central Government shall be deemed to have become the lessee or licensee of the
State Government in relation to each of the Schedule II coal mines, in respect of which a
mining lease or prospecting licence has been granted prior to the date of commencement of
this Act, as if a mining lease or prospecting licence in relation to such coal mine had been
granted to the Central Government or a company owned by the Central Government and the
period of such lease or licence shall be the maximum period for which such lease or licence
could have been granted by the State Government under the Mineral Concession Rules,
1960, and thereupon all the rights under such mining lease, including surface, underground
and other rights shall be deemed to have been transferred to, and vested in, the Central
Government or a company owned by the Central Government.

 (2) On the expiry of the term of any lease or licence, referred to in sub-section (/), such
lease or licence shall be renewed, by the State Government, in consultation with the Central
Government for the maximum period for which such lease or licence can be renewed under
the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960.

 (3) As it is considered expedient and necessary in the public interest and in view of the
difficult situation which has arisen, the powers of the State Government, under the Mines
and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957, to prematurely terminate a prospecting
licence or mining lease, shall stand suspended, in relation to Schedule I coal mines, for a
period of one year from the date of commencement of this Act or such other period as may be
notified by the Central Government.

 18. (J) On and from the appointed date, if the auction or allotment of Schedule I coal
mines is not complete, the Central Government shall appoint any person as a designated
custodian to manage and operate such coal mines as  may be notified by the Centra
Government.

 (2) The designated custodian shall act for and on behalf of the Central Government in
respect of the notified coal mines under sub-section (/) to operate and manage such
Schedule I coal mines in such manner as may be notified, till the completion of the auction o
such coal mines or allotment under section 4 and section 5 read with section 8, as the case
may be.

 19. (1) The designated custodian appointed under sub-section (/) of section 18, shal
be entitled to take control and possession of all lands, in or adjacent to Schedule II coa
mines, and used for coal mining operations and the mine infrastructure in relation to
Schedule II coal mine, on behalf of the Central Government.

 (2) The designated custodian may direct the prior allottees or any other persons
in charge of the management of the Schedule II coal mines and coal mining operations
immediately before the appointed date to provide the requisite manpower, as may be necessary,
to ensure continuity in coal mining operations and production of coal.

67 of 1957.
 Sec. 1]

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY

ll

30 of 2013.

30 of 2013.
20 of 1957.

 30 of 2013.

 (3) The designated custodian shall receive, to the exclusion of all other persons, any
monies due to Schedule II coal mines, notwithstanding cases where such receipt pertains to
a transaction made at any time before the appointed date.

 (4) The designated custodian may call for any information, records and documents in
relation to Schedule II coal mines and coal mining operations from any or all such persons
who were in charge of the management and operation of such Schedule II coal mines prior to
the appointed date, and such persons shall be bound to deliver to the designated custodian
all such documents in their custody relating to Schedule II coal mines.

 (5) The designated custodian may appoint such consultants or experts, as may be
necessary, in relation to the management and operation of Schedule II coal mines.

 (6) The designated custodian shall transfer the management and operation of any
Schedule II coal mines to such person in such manner as may be prescribed.

 (7) The designated custodian shall have rights, liabilities and obligations as a prior
allottee or a successful bidder in respect of coal mines entrusted to it under section 18, to be
exercised and discharged in such manner as may be prescribed.

 (8) The designated custodian shall have the power to perform such other functions
which may be consequential or incidental to the functions specified under this section.

 (9) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force,
the designated custodian shall, in exercise of its powers or the performance of its functions
under this Act, be bound by such directions on questions of policy, as the Central Government
may give in writing to it from time to time.

 CHAPTER V
CERTAIN ARRANGEMENTS

20. (J) A successful bidder or allottee or coal linkage holder shall, with the prior
approval of the Central Government and in accordance with such rules as may be prescribed,
be entitled to enter into certain agreements or arrangements with other successful bidder or
allottee or coal linkage holder, as the case may be, for optimum utilisation of coal mine for the
same end-uses in the public interest and to achieve cost efficiencies.

 (2) A successful bidder or allottee may also use the coal mine from a particular
Schedule I coal mine for any of its plants engaged in common specified end-uses, in accordance
with such rules as may be prescribed.

 CHAPTER VI
MISCELLANEOUS

21. (J) All existing land acquisition proceedings under the Right to Fair Compensation
and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, in relation
to Schedule I coal mines, shall continue in respect of such areas of land in accordance with
the provisions of the said Act.

 (2) All such areas of land which are not subject matter of land acquisition proceedings,
in relation to the coal mines, under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land
Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 may be proceeded with by the Central
Government in terms of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957.

 (3) The State Governments which have initiated land acquisition proceedings under
provisions of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition,
Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 and all such lands which are also subject matter of
the said Act in respect of Schedule I coal mines, shall—

(a) not transfer any land to the prior allottees which have been acquired under
the said Act;

(b) continue the land acquisition proceedings till the appointed date;

(c) for such Schedule I coal mines which have not vested in the successful
bidder or the allottee, as the case may be, by the appointed date, continue the land
acquisition proceedings for and on behalf of the Central Government;

Power of
Central
Government
to approve
certain
arrange-
ments.

Acquisition
of land.
 12

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY

[Part II—

of additional
levy.

 Penalties
for certain
offences.

 Penalty for
failure to
comply with
directions of
Central

Government.

 Offences by
companies.

 Cognizance
of offences.

 Dispute
settlement
and Bar of
Jurisdiction
of civil
courts.

 (d) upon the vesting or the allotment, as the case may be, after the appointed
date, continue such land acquisition proceedings on behalf of the successful bidder or
the allottee.

 22. If a prior allottee of Schedule II coal mine fails to deposit the additional levy with
the Central Government within the specified time, then, such additional levy shall be realised
as the arrears of land revenue.

 23. If any person—

(a) obstructs or causes any impediment in taking possession or in the
management and operation of the Schedule I coal mines by the Central Government or
the designated custodian; or

(b) fails to deliver to the designated custodian any books of account, registers
or any other document in his custody relating to Schedule I coal mines and coal mining
operations in respect of the management of which the designated custodian has been
appointed; or

(c) destroys or misuses any mine infrastructure or coal stock; or
(d) retains any property of such coal mine or removes or destroys it,

he and any officer-in-default of the company shall be punishable with imprisonment for a
term which may extend to two years, or with the minimum fine of one lakh rupees per day and
in the case of continuing failure, with a maximum fine of two lakh rupees for every day during
which the failure continues or with both, depending upon the nature of the offence.

 24. If any person fails to comply, without reasonable cause, with a direction given by
the Central Government or nominated authority or the designated custodian, he shall be
punishable with a fine of one lakh rupees and in the case of continuing failure with a maximum
fine of two lakh rupees for every day during which the failure continues, depending upon the
nature of the offence.

 25. (1) Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every
person who at the time the offence was committed was in charge of, and was responsible to,
the company for the conduct of business of the company as well as the company shall be
deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly:

Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such person
liable to any punishment, if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge
and that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.

 (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (/), where any offence under
this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that the offence has been
committed with the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to, any neglect on the part of
any director, manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager,
secretary or other officer shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly.

26. No court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act or any
rules made thereunder except upon complaint in writing made by a person authorised in this
behalf by the Central Government or nominated authority or the designated custodian.

 27. (1) Any dispute arising out of any action of the Central Government, nominated
authority or Commissioner of payment or designated custodian, or any dispute between the
successful bidder or allottee and prior allottee arising out of any issue connected with the
Act shall be adjudicated by the Tribunal constituted under the Coal Bearing Areas
(Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957

(2) Where the Central Government is of the opinion that any dispute arising out of any
issue connected with the Act exists or is apprehended and the dispute should be adjudicated

20 of 1957.
 Sec. 1]

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY

13

26 of 1973.
 67 of 1957.

 by the Tribunal referred to in sub-section (/), then, the Central Government may by order in
writing, refer the dispute or any matter appearing to be connected with, or relevant to, the
dispute, to the Tribunal for adjudication.

 (3) The Tribunal referred to in sub-section (/) shall, after hearing the parties to the
dispute, make an award in writing within a period of ninety days from the institution or
reference of the dispute.

 (4) On and from the commencement of the Act, no court or other authority, except the
Supreme Court and a High Court, shall have, or be entitled to exercise, any jurisdiction,
powers or authority, in relation to matters connected with the Act.

28. No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central
Government, nominated authority, commissioner of payment, or designated custodian or
any person acting on their behalf, in respect of anything which is done or intended to be
done in good faith under this Act.

 29. The provisions of this Act shall have effect, notwithstanding anything inconsistent
therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force, or in any instrument having
effect by virtue of any such law.

 30. On and from the date of commencement of this Act, the Coal Mines (Nationalisation)
Act, 1973 and the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 shall stand
amended in the manner provided in Schedule IV.

31. (/) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, and subject
to the condition of previous publication, make rules for carrying out the provisions of this
Act.

 (2) In particular, and without prejudice the generality of the foregoing power, such
rules may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:—
(a) the manner of allocation of Schedule I coal mines by way of public auction
and details of fees under sub-section (/) of section 4;
(b) the terms and conditions for granting reconnaissance permit, prospecting

licence or mining lease and the manner and conditions of competitive bidding under
sub-section (2) of section 4;

(c) norms to become eligible to bid in an auction and the amount of investment
in respect of a company having a coal linkage under sub-section (3) of section 4;

(d) the period within which the payment of additional levy by the prior allottee
under sub-section (4) of section 4;

(e) the allotment order to make alloca tions to a Government company or
corporation under sub-section (/) of section 5;

(f) the powers of the nominated authority under sub-section () of section 6;

(g) the manner of auction or allotment of Schedule I coal mines and execution of
the vesting or allotment orders under sub-section (4) of section 6;

(h) the salaries and allowances and other terms and conditions of service of the
nominated authority and other officers and staff under sub-section (6) of section 6;

(i) the manner of notifying the particulars of Schedule I coal mines to be auctioned
and furnishing of required information by the prior allottees under sub-section (/) of
section 8;

(j) the manner of conducting auction and drawing of a vesting order under
sub-section (3) of section 8;

(k) determination of floor price by the nominated authority under
sub-section (5) of section 8;

(J) the form and manner of furnishing of bank guarantee and the time within
which such furnishing of bank guarantee under sub-section (6) of section 8;

Protection of
action taken
in good faith.

 Act to
have
overriding
effect.

 Amendment
of certain
Acts
contained in
Schedule IV.

Power to
make rules.
 14

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY

[Part II—

Power to
remove
difficulties.

 Repeal and
saving.

 (m) the manner of disbursement of priority payments under section 9;

(n) the manner of establishing title of movable property by the prior allottee or
third party who has a contract with the prior allottee for the movable property under
the first proviso to sub-section (5) of section 10;

(o) the manner of receiving compensation from the sale proceeds of the movable
property under the second proviso to sub-section (5) of section 10;

(p) the manner in which the secured creditor paid out of the compensation in
respect of any prior allottee under sub-section (2) of section 12;

(q) the manner of collection of additional levy by the Central Government from
the prior allottees of Schedule I coal mines under sub-section (5) of section 14;

(r) the salaries and allowances and other terms and conditions of service of the
Commissioner of payments and other officers and staff under sub-section (4) of
section 15;

(s) the manner of determination of compensation payable to prior allottee and
the lodging of registered sale deeds with the nominated authority under sub-section
(J) of section 16;

(t) the method of determination of compensation for mine infrastructure in relation
to Schedule I and its reflection in the statutorily audited balance sheet under
sub-section (2) of section 16;

(u) the manner of transfer of the management and operation of any Schedule II
coal mines by the designated custodian under sub-section (6) of section 19;

(v) the manner of exercising and discharging the rights, liabilities and obligations
by the designated custodian under sub-section (7) of section 19;

(w) the manner of providing agreements or arrangements for optimum utilisation
of coal mine for specified end-uses under sub-section (/) of section 20;

(x) the manner of usage of coal mine by a successful bidder or allottee for any of
its plants under sub-section (2) of section 20;

(y) any other matter which is required to be, or may be, prescribed.

 (3) Every rule made and every notification issued by the Central Government, under
this Act, shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament,
while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session
or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately
following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making
any modification in the rule or notification, or both Houses agree that the rule or notification
should not be made, the rule or notification shall thereafter have effect only in such modified
form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
rule or notification .

 32. (1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Central
Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette, make such provisions, not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as appear to it to be necessary or expedient for
removing the difficulty:

Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of a period of two years from
the date of commencement of this Act.

 (2) Every order made under this section shall, as soon as may be after it is made, be laid
before each House of Parliament.

 33. (1) The Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Second Ordinance, 2014 is hereby repealed.

 (2) Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the said
Ordinance, shall, without prejudice to the judgment of the Supreme Court dated 25th August,
2014 and its order dated 24th September, 2014 passed in Writ Petition (Criminal)
 No. 120 of 2012, be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions
of this Act.

Ord. 7 of
2014.
 Sec. 1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 15
SCHEDULE I
 [See section 3(/)(p)]
SL. Name of Coal Name of Prior Allottee State where Coal
No. — Mine/Block Mine/Block
Located
1 2 3 4
1 Tadicherla-I Andhra Pradesh Power Generation Corpn. Ltd. Telangana
2 Anesttipali Andhra Pradesh Power Generation Corpn. Ltd. Telangana
3 Punkula-Chilka Andhra Pradesh Power Generation Corpn. Ltd. Telangana
4 Penagaddppa Andhra Pradesh Power Generation Corpn. Ltd. Telangana
5 Namchik Namphuk — Arunachal Pradesh Mineral Dev. & Trading Corporation Arunachal Pradesh
6 Sayang AES Chhattisgarh Energy Pvt. Ltd Chhattisgarh
7 Rajgamar Dipside API Ispat & Powertech Pvt. Ltd., CG Sponge Manufacturers
(Deavnara) Consortium Coalfield Pvt. Ltd. Chhattisgarh
8 Durgapur-II/ Bharat Aluminium Company Ltd. Chhattisgarh
Taraimar
9 Datima Binani Cement Ltd. Chhattisgarh
10 Tara Chhattisgarh Mineral Development Corporation Limited Chhattisgarh
ll Gare-Palma, Sector-I Chhattisgarh Mineral Development Corporation Limited Chhattisgarh
12 Shankarpur Chhattisgarh Mineral Development Corporation Limited Chhattisgarh
Bhatgaon II Extn.
B Sondhia Chhattisgarh Mineral Development Corporation Limited Chhattisgarh
14 Parsa Chhattisgarh State Electricity Board Chhattisgarh
15 Vijay Central Coal India Limited, SKS Ispat & Power Ltd. Chhattisgarh
16 Gidhmuri Chhattisgarh State Electricity Board Chhattisgarh
17 Paturia Chhattisgarh State Electricity Board Chhattisgarh
18 Durgapur-I[/Sarya DB Power Ltd. Chhattisgarh
19 Bhaskarpara Electrotherm (India) Ltd., Grasim Industries Ltd. Chhattisgarh
20 West of Umaria Sainik Finance and Industries Ltd. ( Earlier Garuda Clays Ltd.) Chhattisgarh
21 Morga II Gujarat Mineral Development Corporation Chhattisgarh
2 Gare-Palma Sector-II1 Goa Industrial Development Corporation Chhattisgarh
2B Madanpur South Hindustan Zinc Ltd., Akshya Investment Pvt. Ltd., Chhattisgarh
Chhattisgarh Steel & Power Ltd., Chhattisgarh
Electricity Corporation Ltd., MSP Steel & Power Ltd.,
Chhattisgarh Captive Coal Mining Ltd. (Consortium of five Cos. )
 24 Nakia I Ispat Godavari Ltd., Ind Agro Synergy Ltd., Chhattisgarh
Shri Nakoda Ispat Ltd., Vandana Global Ltd.,
Shree Bajrang Power & Ispat Ltd.
25 Nakia II Ispat Godavari, Ind Agro Synergy, Shri Nakoda Ispat, Chhattisgarh
Vandana Global Ltd., Shree Bajrang Power & Ispat Ltd.
26 Gare-Palma- IV/4 Jayaswal Neco Ltd. Chhattisgarh
27 Gare-Palma- I'V/8 Jayaswal Neco Ltd. Chhattisgarh
28 Gare-Palma-IV/2 Jindal Power Ltd. (Now Jindal Steel & Power Ltd.) Chhattisgarh
29 Gare-Palma-IV/3 Jindal Power Ltd. (Now Jindal Steel & Power Ltd.) Chhattisgarh

16 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part II—
1 2 3 4
30 Gare-Palma-IV/1 Jindal Strips Limited (Now Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. ) Chhattisgarh
31 Gare-Palma IV/6 Jindal Steel & Power Ltd., Nalwa Sponge Iron Ltd. Chhattisgarh
32 Fatehpur East JLD Yavatmal Energy Ltd., R.K.M. Powergen Pvt. Ltd., Chhattisgarh
Visa Power Ltd., Green Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd., Vandana Vidyut Ltd.
33 Morga-I Madhya Pradesh State Mining Corporation Limited Chhattisgarh
4 Morga-lll Madhya Pradesh State Mineral Corporation Limited Chhattisgarh
35 Morga-IV Madhya Pradesh State Mineral Corporation Limited Chhattisgarh
36 Gare-Palma Sector-II Maharashtra State Mining Corpn. Ltd. Chhattisgarh
Tamil Nadu State Electricity Board
37 Gare-Palma-IV/5 Monet Ispat Ltd. Chhattisgarh
38 Rajgamar Dipside Monnet Ispat and Energy Ltd., Topworth Steel Pvt. Ltd. Chhattisgarh
(South of
Phulakdih Nala)
39 Talaipali National Thermal Power Ltd. Chhattisgarh
40 Chotia Prakash Industries Ltd. Chhattisgarh
41 Gare-Palma-IV/7 Raipur Alloys & Steel Ltd. (Now Sarda Energy and Chhattisgarh
Mineral Limited)
Q Parsa East Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd. (RRVUNL) Chhattisgarh
B Kesla North Rathi Udyog Ltd. Chhattisgarh
EE Kanta Basan Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd. (RRVUNL) Chhattisgarh
45 Panchbahani Shree Radhe Industries Ltd. Chhattisgarh
46 Fatehpur SKS Ispat and Power Ltd., Prakash Industries Ltd. Chhattisgarh
47 Madanpur (North) — Ultratech Ltd., Singhal Enterprise Ltd. , Nav Bharat Coalfield Ltd., Chhattisgarh
Vandana Energy & Steel Pvt. Ltd., Prakash Industries Ltd.,
Anjani Steel Pvt. Ltd., Chhattisgarh Captive Coal Mining Ltd.
(Consortium of five Co. )
 48 Brinda Abhijeet Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. Jharkhand
49 Sasai Abhijeet Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. Jharkhand
50 Meral Abhijeet Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. Jharkhand
51 Seregarha Arcelor Mittal India Ltd., GVK Power (Govindwal Sahib) Ltd. Jharkhand
532 Patal East Bhushan Power and Steel Ltd. Jharkhand
53 Saria Koiyatand Bihar Rajya Khanij Vikas Nigam (BRK VN) Patna. Jharkhand
4 Macherkunda Bihar Sponge Iron Ltd. Jharkhand
55 Brahmadiha Castron Technologies Ltd. Jharkhand
56 Mahuagarhi Calcutta Electricity Supply Corporation Ltd. (CESC), Jharkhand
Jas Infrastructure Capital Pvt. Ltd.
 57 Chitarpur Corporate Ispat Alloys Ltd. Jharkhand
58 Saharpur Jamarpani Damodar Valley Corporation Jharkhand
59 Lalgarh (North) Domco Smokeless Fuel Pvt. Ltd. Jharkhand
ie) Parbatpur-Central Electrosteel castings Ltd. Jharkhand
6l Chakla Essar Power Ltd. Jharkhand
a Ashok Karkatta Essar Power Ltd. Jharkhand

Central

Sec. 1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 17
1 2 3 4
{ot} Jainagar Gujarat Mineral Development Corporation (GMDC) Jharkhand
4 Tokisud North GVK Power (Govindwal Sahib) Ltd. Jharkhand
65 Tubed Hindalco Industries Ltd., Tata Power Company Ltd. Jharkhand
6 Moitra Jayaswal Neco Ltd. Jharkhand
67 North Dhadu Jharkhand Ispat Pvt. Ltd., Pavanjay Steel & Power Ltd., Jharkhand
Electrosteel castings Ltd., Adhunik Alloys & Power Ltd.
 68 Banhardih Jharkhand State Electricity Board Jharkhand
oO SugiaClosedmine Jharkhand State Mineral Development Corporation Jharkhand
v0) Rauta Closed mine — Jharkhand State Mineral Development Corporation Jharkhand
71 Burakhap small patch Jharkhand State Mineral Development Corporation Jharkhand
R Pindra-Debipur- Jharkhand State Mineral Development Corporation Ltd. Jharkhand
Khaowatand
B Latehar Jharkhand State Mineral Development Corporation Ltd. Jharkhand
74 Patratu Jharkhand State Mineral Development Corporation Ltd. Jharkhand
wh) Rabodih OCP Jharkhand State Mineral Development Corporation Ltd. Jharkhand
we) Jogeshwar & Khas Jharkhand State Mineral Development Corporation Jharkhand
Jogeshwar
7 Jitpur Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. Jharkhand
B Amarkonda Jindal Steel and Power Ltd.,Gagan Sponge Iron Pvt. Ltd. Jharkhand
Murgadangal
wc) Urma Paharitola Jharkhand State Electric ity Board, Bihar State Jharkhand
Mineral Development Corporation Ltd.
80 Rohne JSW Steel Ltd., Bhushan Power & Steel Ltd., Jharkhand
Jai Balaji Industries Ltd.
81 Gomia Metals and Minerals Trading Corporation Jharkhand
82 Rajhara North Mukund Limited, Vini Iron & Steel Udyog Limited Jharkhand
(Central & Eastern)
83 Dumri Nilachal Iron & Power Ltd., Bajrang Ispat Pvt. Ltd. Jharkhand
#4 Kerandari National Thermal Power Ltd. Jharkhand
8&5 Chhatti Bariatu National Thermal Power Ltd. Jharkhand
86 Chhati Bariatu South National Thermal Power Ltd. Jharkhand
87 Brahmini National Thermal Power Ltd.+ Coal India Limited JV Jharkhand
88 Chichro Patsimal National Thermal Power Ltd.+ Coal India Limited JV Jharkhand
89 Pachwara Central Punjab State Electricity Board Jharkhand
90 Mahal Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited Jharkhand
OL Tenughat-Jhirki Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited Jharkhand
2 Bundu Rungta Mines Limited Jharkhand
B Mednirai Rungta Mines Limited, Kohinoor Steel (P) Ltd. Jharkhand
4 Choritand Tiliaya Rungta Mines Limited, Sunflag Iron & Steel Co. Ltd. Jharkhand
a) Sitanala Steel Authority of India Ltd. Jharkhand
9% Ganeshpur Tata Steel Ltd., Adhunik Thermal Energy Jharkhand
97 Badam Tenughat Vidyut Nigam Limited Jharkhand

18 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part II—

1 2 3 4
98  Rajbar E&D Tenughat Vidyut Nigam Limited Jharkhand
99   Gondulpara Tenughat Vidyut Nigam Limited, Damodar Valley Corporation Jharkhand
100 ~—-Kotre-Basantpur Tata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd. ( Now Tata Steel Ltd.) Jharkhand
101 Pachmo Tata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd. ( Now Tata Steel Ltd.) Jharkhand
102. Lohari Usha Martin Ltd. Jharkhand
103. Kathautia Usha Martin Ltd. Jharkhand
104 Pachwara North West Bengal Power Development Corporation Limited(WBPDCL) Jharkhand
105 Suliyari Andhra Pradesh Mineral Development Corporation Madhya Pradesh
106 ~—- Bikram Birla Corporation Ltd. Madhya Pradesh
107 ~— Gotitoria (East) BLA Industries Ltd. Madhya Pradesh
108 — Gotitoria (West) BLA Industries Ltd. Madhya Pradesh
109 Mahan Essar Power Ltd., Hindalco Industries Ltd. Madhya Pradesh
110 ~=Mandla North Jaipraskash Associates Ltd. Madhya Pradesh
lll Urtan North Jindal Steel & Power Ltd., Monet Ispat and Energy Ltd. Madhya Pradesh
112. Thesgora-B/ Kamal Sponge Steel & Power Limited, Revati Cement P. Ltd. Madhya Pradesh
Rudrapuri
113. Amelia Madhya Pradesh State Mining Corporation Madhya Pradesh
114 Amelia (North) Madhya Pradesh State Mining Corporation Madhya Pradesh
115 Mandla South Madhya Pradesh State Mining Corporation Ltd. Madhya Pradesh
116 Dongeri Tal-II Madhya Pradesh State Mining Corporation Ltd. (MPSMC) Madhya Pradesh
117. Marki Barka Madhya Pradesh State Mining Corporation (MPSMC) Madhya Pradesh
118 Semaria/Piparia Madhya Pradesh State Mining Corporation (MPSMC) Madhya Pradesh
119 Bicharpur Madhya Pradesh State Mining Corporation Ltd. (MPSMC) Madhya Pradesh
120 Tandsi-II & Mideast Integrated Steels Ltd. Madhya Pradesh
Tandsi -III (Extn.)
121 Sahapur East National Mineral Dev. Corp. Madhya Pradesh
122. Sahapur West National Mineral Dev. Corp. Madhya Pradesh
123. Mara II Mahan NCT of Delhi, Delhi, Haryana Power Generation Madhya Pradesh
Corp. Ltd. (HPGCL)
124 — Sial Ghoghri Prism Cement Limited Madhya Pradesh
125. Brahampuri Pushp Steel and Mining Ltd. Madhya Pradesh
126 = Rawanwara North SKS Ispat Limited Madhya Pradesh
127 _—- Bander AMR Iron & Steels Pvt. Ltd., Century Textiles & Maharashtra
Industries Ltd., J.K.Cement Ltd.
128 = Marki Mangli-I B.S. Ispat Ltd. Maharashtra
129 Takli-Jena- Central Collieries Co. Ltd. and Lloyds Metals & Engineering Ltd. Maharashtra
Bellora (North) &
Takli-Jena-
Bellora (South)
130 Dahegaon/ IST Steel & Power Ltd., Gujarat Ambuja Cement Ltd., Maharashtra
Makard hokra- IV Lafarge India Pvt. Ltd.
131 Gondkhari Maharashtra Seamless Limited, Dhariwal Infrastructure (P) Ltd., Maharashtra

Kesoram Industries Ltd.

Sec. 1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 19
1 2 3 4
132. Marki-Zari- Maharashtra State Mining Corpn. Ltd. Maharashtra
Jamani-Adkoli
133. ~~ Lohara (East) Murli Industries Ltd., Grace Industries Ltd. Maharashtra
134 Khappa & Extn. Sunflag Iron & Steel Ltd., Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Ltd. Maharashtra
135 Lohara West Extn. — Adani Power Ltd. Maharashtra
136 ~=Warora West (North) Bhatia International Ltd. Maharashtra
137 Kosar Dongergaon Chaman Metaliks Ltd. Maharashtra
138 Warora (West) Fieldmining & Ispat Ltd. Maharashtra
Southern Part
139 Chinora Fieldmining & Ispat Ltd. Maharashtra
140 = Majra Gondwana Ispat Ltd. Maharashtra
141 ~~ Nerad Malegaon Gupta Metallics & Power Ltd., Gupta Coalfields & Washeries Ltd. | Maharashtra
142 Baranj- I Karnataka Power Corp. Ltd. (KPCL) Maharashtra
143 Baranj - IL Karnataka Power Corp. Ltd. (KPCL) Maharashtra
144 ~~ Baranj - Ill Karnataka Power Corp. Ltd. (KPCL) Maharashtra
145 Baranj- IV Karnataka Power Corp. Ltd. (KPCL) Maharashtra
146 — Kiloni Karnataka Power Corp. Ltd. (KPCL) Maharashtra
147. Manora Deep Karnataka Power Corp. Ltd. (KPCL) Maharashtra
148 ~~ Agarzari Maharashtra State Mining Corporation Limited (MSMCL) Maharashtra
149 = Warora Maharashtra State Mining Corporation Limited (MSMCL) Maharashtra
150 Bhandak West Shree Baidyanath Ayurved Bhawan Ltd. Maharashtra
151 Marki Mangli-II Shree Veerangana Steel Limited. Maharashtra
152. Marki Mangli-III Shree Veerangana Steel Limited. Maharashtra
153. Marki Mangli-IV Shree Veerangana Steel Limited. Maharashtra
154 Belgaon Sunflag Iron & Steel Co. Ltd. Maharashtra
155 Mandakini B Assam Mineral Dev. Corporation Ltd., Meghalaya Odisha
Mineral Dev. Corp., Tamil Nadu Electricity Board,
Odisha Mining Corporation Ltd.
156 New Patrapara Bhusan Steel & Strips Ltd., Adhunik Metaliks Ltd., Odisha
Deepak Steel & Power Ltd., Adhunik Corp. Ltd.,
Odisha Sponge Iron Ltd., SMC Power Generation Ltd.,
Sree Metaliks Ltd., Visa Steel Ltd.
157 Bijahan Bhushan Ltd., Shri Mahavir Ferro Alloys Pvt. Limited Odisha
158 Jamkhani Bhushan Ltd. Odisha
159 Naini Gujarat Mineral Development Corporation, Puducherry Industrial Odisha
Promotion Development and Investment Corporation Limited
160 =Mahanadi Gujarat State Electricity Corporation Limited, Maharashtra Odisha
State Electricity Board
161 Machhakata Gujarat State Electricity Corporation Limited, Maharashtra Odisha
State Electricity Board
162. Talabira-I Hindalco Industries Ltd. Odisha
163. = Ramchandi Jindal Steel & Power Limited Odisha

Promotion Block

20 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part II—

1 2 3 4
164 UtkalB 1 Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. Odisha
165 — Baitarni West Kerala State Electricity Board, Odisha Hydro Power Corp., Odisha

Gujarat Power Corporation Ltd.
166 ~—- Talabira II & III Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd. (MCL), Neyveli Lignite Corporation Ltd., Odisha
Hindalco Industries Ltd.
167 Utkal-A Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd. (MCL), JSW Steels Ltd., Odisha
Jindal Thermal Power Comp. Ltd., Jindal Stainless Steels Ltd.,
Shyam DRI Ltd.
 168 — Utkal-B2 Monet Ispat Ltd. Odisha
169 = Mandakini Monet Ispat Energy Ltd., Jindal Photo Ltd., Tata Power Odisha
Company Ltd.
170 Utkal'E' National Aluminium Corporation Odisha
171 ~~ Dulanga National Thermal Power Corporation Odisha
172. —_Utkal-D Odisha Mining Corporation Odisha
173, Nuagaon Telisahi Odisha Mining Corporation, Andhra Pradesh Mineral Odisha
Development (APMDC)
174 ~~ Manoharpur Odisha Power Generation Corporation Odisha
175 Dipside Manoharpur Odisha Power Generation Corporation Odisha
176 ~—- Radhikapur (West) | Rungta Mines Limited, OCL India Ltd., Ocean Ispat Ltd. Odisha
177 Rampia Sterlite Energy Ltd., (IPP), GMR Energy Ltd. (IPP), Odisha

Arcelor Mittal India Ltd. (CPP), Lanco Group Ltd. (IPP),
 Navbharat Power Pvt. Ltd. (IPP), Reliance Energy Ltd. (IPP)

 178  DipSideofRampia — Sterlite Energy Ltd., (IPP), GMR Energy (IPP), Odisha
Arcelor Mittal India Ltd. (CPP), Lanco Group Ltd. (IPP),
 Navbharat Power Pvt. Ltd. (IPP), Reliance Energy Ltd. (IPP)

 179 North of Arkhapal Strategic Energy Technology Systems Limited (SETSL) Odisha
Srirampur

180 Radhikapur(East) Tata Sponge Iron Ltd, Scaw Industries Ltd., SPS Sponge Iron Ltd. | Odisha

181 Chendipada Uttar Pradesh Rajya Vidut Utpadan Limited, Odisha

Chattishgarh Mineral Development Corporation Limited,
Maharashtra State Power Generation Corporation Ltd.

182. Chendipada-II Uttar Pradesh Rajya Vidut Utpadan Limited, Chattishgarh Odisha
Mineral Development Corporation Limited, Maharashtra State
Power Generation Corporation Ltd.

 183 Utkal-C Utkal Coal Ltd. (formerly ICCL) Odisha
184 Biharinath Bankura DRI Mining Manufacturers Co. Pvt. Ltd. West Bengal
185 Andal East Bhushan Steel Ltd., Jai Balaji Industries Ltd., Rashmi Cement Ltd. | West Benga
186 —_ Barjora (North) Damodar Valley Corporation West Benga!
 187 Kagra Joydev Damodar Valley Corporation West Benga!
188 Kasta (East) Damodar Valley Corporation West Benga!
189  Gourangdih ABC Himachal EMTA Power Ltd., JSW Steel Ltd. West Benga!
 190 = Moira-Madhujore Ramsarup Lohh Udyog Ltd., Adhunik Corporation Ltd., West Bengal
Uttam Galva Steels Ltd., Howrah Gases Ltd., Vikas Metal &
Power Ltd., ACC Ltd.
191 Sarisatolli Calcutta Electricity Supply Corporation Ltd. West Bengal

Sec. 1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 21
1 2 3 4
192. Ardhagram Sova Ispat Limited, Jaibalaji Sponge Ltd. West Bengal
193 Tara (West) West Bengal Power Development Corporation Limited (WBPDCL) West Bengal
194 ~Gangaramchak West Bengal Power Development Corporation Limited (WBPDCL) West Bengal
195 Barjora West Bengal Power Development Corporation Limited (WBPDCL) West Bengal
196 Gangaramchak- West Bengal Power Development Corporation Limited (WBPDCL) West Bengal
Bhadulia
197 Tara (East) West Bengal State Electricity Board West Bengal
198  Jaganathpur B West Bengal Mineral Development & Trading Corp. West Bengal
199 Sitarampur West Bengal Mineral Dev. & Trading Corp. Ltd. West Bengal
200 Trans Damodar West Bengal Mineral Dev. & Trading Corp. Ltd. West Bengal
201 — Ichhapur West Bengal Mineral Dev. & Trading Corp. Ltd. West Bengal
202~—s Kult West Bengal Mineral Dev. & Trading Corp. Ltd. West Bengal
203 Jaganathpur A West Bengal Mineral Dev. & Trading Corp. Ltd. West Bengal
204 EastofDamogoria West Bengal Power Development Corporation Limited(WBPDCL) West Bengal

(Kalyaneshwari)

22

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY

 [Part II—

SCHEDULE II
 [See section 3(1)(q)]
SL. Name of Coal Name of Prior Allottee State where Coal
No. — Mine/Block Mine/Block
Located

1 2 3 4

1 Namchik Namphuk — Arunachal Pradesh Mineral Dev. & Trading Corporation Arunachal Pradesh

2 Gare-Palma- IV/4 Jayaswal Neco Ltd. Chhattisgarh

3 Gare-Palma-IV/2 Jindal Power Ltd. (Now Jindal Steel & Power Ltd.) Chhattisgarh

4 Gare-Palma-IV/3 Jindal Power Ltd. (Now Jindal Steel & Power Ltd.) Chhattisgarh

5 Gare-Palma-IV/1 Jindal Strips Limited (Now Jindal Steel & Power Ltd .) Chhattisgarh

6 Gare-Palma-IV/5 Monet Ispat Ltd. Chhattisgarh

7 Chotia Prakash Industries Ltd. Chhattisgarh

8 Gare-Palma-IV/7 Raipur Alloys & Steel Ltd. (Now Sarda Energy and Mineral Limited) Chhattisgarh

9 Parsa East Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd. (RRVUNL) Chhattisgarh
10 Kanta Basan Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd. (RRVUNL) Chhattisgarh
ll Parbatpur-Central Electrosteel Castings Ltd. Jharkhand
12 Tokisud North GVK Power (Govindwal Sahib) Ltd. Jharkhand
B Pachwara Central Punjab State Electricity Board Jharkhand
14 Kathautia Usha Martin Ltd. Jharkhand
15 Pachwara North West Bengal Power Development Corporation Limited(WBPDCL) Jharkhand
16 Gotitoria (East) BLA Industries Ltd. Madhya Pradesh
17 Gotitoria (West) BLA Industries Ltd. Madhya Pradesh
18 Man dla North Jaipraskash Associates Ltd. Madhya Pradesh
19 Amelia (North) Madhya Pradesh State Mining Corporation Madhya Pradesh
20 Bicharpur Madhya Pradesh State Mining Corporation Ltd. (MPSMC) Madhya Pradesh
21 Sial Ghoghri Prism Cement Limited Madhya Pradesh
2 Marki Mangli-I B.S. Ispat Ltd. Maharashtra
2B Baranj - I Karnataka Power Corp. Ltd. (KPCL) Maharashtra
24 Baranj - II Karnataka Power Corp. Ltd. (KPCL) Maharashtra
25 Baranj - III Karnataka Power Corp. Ltd. (KPCL) Maharashtra
26 Baranj- IV Karnataka Power Corp. Ltd. (KPCL) Maharashtra
27 Kiloni Karnataka Power Corp. Ltd. (KPCL) Maharashtra
28 Manora Deep Karnataka Power Corp. Ltd. (KPCL) Maharashtra
29 Marki Mangli-II Shree Veerangana Steels Limited. Maharashtra
30 Marki Mangli-IIT Shree Veerangana Steels Limited. Maharashtra
31 Belgaon Sunflag Iron & Steel Co. Ltd Maharashtra
32 Talabira-I Hindalco Industries Ltd. Odisha
33 Barjora (North) Damodar Valley Corporation West Bengal
4 Kagra Joydev Damodar Valley Corporation West Bengal
35 Sarisatolli Calcutta Electricity Supply Corporation Ltd. West Bengal
36 Ardhagram Sova Ispat Limited, Jai Balaji Sponge Ltd. West Bengal

Sec. 1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 23
1 2 3 4
37 Tara (West) West Bengal Power Development Corporation Limited (WBPDCL) West Bengal
38 Gangaramchak West Bengal Power Development Corporation Limited (WBPDCL) West Bengal
39 Barjora West Bengal Power Development Corporation Limited (WBPDCL) West Bengal
40 Gangaramchak- West Bengal Power Development Corporation Limited (WBPDCL) West Bengal
Bhadulia
41 Tara (East) West Bengal State Electricity Board West Bengal
Q Trans Damodar West Bengal Mineral Dev. & Trading Corp. Ltd. West Bengal

SCHEDULE III

 [See section 3(/)(r)]
SL. Name of Coal Name of Prior Allottee State where Coal
No. — Mine/Block Mine/Block
Located
1 2 3 4
1 Durgapur-II/ Bharat Aluminium Company Ltd. Chhattisgarh
Taraimar
2 Durgapur-I[/Sarya DB Power Ltd. Chhattisgarh
3 Gare-Palma Sector-II1 Goa Industrial Development Corporation Chhattisgarh
4 Gare-Palma IV/8 Jayaswal Neco Ltd. Chhattisgarh
5 Talaipali National Thermal Power Ltd. Chhattisgarh
6 Chatti Bariatu National Thermal Power Ltd. Jharkhand
7 Mahan Essar Power Ltd., Hindalco Industries Ltd. Madhya Pradesh
8 Mandla South Madhya Pradesh State Mining Corporation Ltd. Madhya Pradesh
9 Dongeri Tal-II Madhya Pradesh State Mining Corporation Ltd. (MPSMC) Madhya Pradesh
10 Kosar Dongergaon Chaman Metaliks Ltd. Maharashtra
ll Nerad Malegaon Gupta Metallics & Power Ltd., Gupta Coalfields & Washeries Ltd. | Maharashtra
12 Marki Mangli-IV Shree Veerangana Steel Limited. Maharashtra
1B Jamkhani Bhushan Ltd. Odisha
14 Utkal B 1 Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. Odisha
15 Utkal-B 2 Monet Ispat Ltd. Odisha
16 Mandakini Monet Ispat Energy Ltd., Jindal Photo Ltd., Tata Power Odisha
Company Ltd.
17 Utkal-C Utkal Coal Ltd. (formerly ICCL) Odisha
18 Brinda Abhijeet Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. Jharkhand
19 Sasai Abhijeet Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. Jharkhand
20 Meral Abhijeet Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. Jharkhand
21 Moitra Jayaswal Neco Ltd Jharkhand
2 Jitpur Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. Jharkhand
B Rohne JSW Steel Ltd., Bhushan Power & Steel Ltd., Jai Balaji Jharkhand
Industries Ltd.
24 Dumri Nilachal Iron & Power Ltd., Bajrang Ispat Pvt. Ltd. Jharkhand
25 Kerandari National Thermal Power Ltd. Jharkhand
26 Sitanala Steel Authority of India Ltd. Jharkhand
27 Ganeshpur Tata Steel Ltd., Adhunik Thermal Energy Jharkhand
28 Badam Tenughat Vidyut Nigam Limited Jharkhand
29 Tara Chhattisgarh Mineral Development Corporation Ltd. Chhattisgarh
30 Lohari Usha Martin Ltd. Jharkhand
31 Dulanga National Thermal Power Corporation Odisha
32 Manoharpur Odisha Power Generation Corporation Odisha

24
SCHEDULE IV
(See section 28)
PARTA
THE Coat Mines (NaTIONALISATION) Act, 1973
(26 or 1973)

1. In the Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1973 (herein referred to as the principal
Act), in sub-section (/) of section 1A, after the word and figure "section 3", the word, figure
and letter ", section 3A" shall be inserted.

 2. After section 3 of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted, namely: —

'3A. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, any person being—

(a) a Government company or corporation or a joint venture company
formed by such company or corporation or between the Central Government or
the State Government, as the case may be, or any other company incorporated
in India; or

(b) a company or a joint venture company formed by two or more
companies,

may carry on coal mining operations in India, in any form either for own
consumption, sale or for any other purpose in accordance with the prospecting
licence or mining lease, as the case may be.

 (2) The Central Government may, with a view to rationalise such coal mines
so as to ensure the coordinated and scientific development and utilisation of coal
resources consistent with the growing requirements of the country, from time to time,
prescribe—

(i) the coal mines or coal bearing areas and their location;
(ii) the minimum size of the coal mine or coal bearing areas;
(iii) such other conditions,

which in the opinion of that Government may be necessary for the purpose of
coal mining operations or mining for sale by a company.

 Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, "company" means a company as
18 of 2013. defined in clause (20) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013.'.

 3. In section 34 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2), after clause (a), the following
clause shall be inserted, namely:—

"(aa) the coal mines or coal bearing areas and their location, the minimum size of
the coal mine or coal bearing areas, and such other conditions which may be necessary
for the purpose of coal mining operations including mining for sale by a company
under sub-section (2) of section 3A.".

 PARTB
Tue Mines AND MINERALS (DEVELOPMENT AND REGULATION) Act, 1957
(67 oF 1957)

 1. In the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (herein referred
to as the principal Act), for section 11A, the following section shall be substituted, namely: —

25

Amendment
of section
1A.

Insertion of
new section
3A.

Mining
operation by
company and
others.

 Amendment
of section 34.

Substitution
of new
section for
section 11A.
26

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY

[Part II—

Granting of
reconnaissance
permit,
prospecting
licence or
mining lease.

 ‘L1A. (J) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the Central Government
may, for the purpose of granting reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining
lease in respect of any area containing coal or lignite, select any of the following
companies through auction by competitive bidding, on such terms and conditions as
may be prescribed, namely:—

(a) a Government company or corporation or a joint venture company
formed by such company or corporation or between the Central Government or
the State Government, as the case may be, or any other company incorporated
in India; or

(b) a company or a joint venture company formed by two or more
companies,

that carry on coal mining operations in India, in any form either for own
consumption, sale or for any other purpose in accordance with the permit,
prospecting licence or mining lease, as the case may be.

 (2) The Central Government may, with a view to rationalise coal and lignite
mines referred to in sub-section (/), so as to ensure the coordinated and scientific
development and utilisation of resources consistent with the growing requirements of
the country, from time to time, prescribe—

(i) the details of mines and their location;
(ii) the minimum size of such mines;
(iii) such other conditions,

which in the opinion of that Government may be necessary for the purpose of
mining operations or mining for sale by a company.

 (3) The State Government shall grant such reconnaissance permit, prospecting
licence or mining lease in respect of any area containing coal or lignite to such company
as selected through auction by competitive bidding or otherwise under this section:

Provided that the auction by competitive bidding under this section shall not be
applicable to an area containing coal or lignite—

(a) where such area is considered for allocation to a Government company
or corporation or a joint venture company formed by such company or corporation
or between the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may
be;

(b) where such area is considered for allocation to a company or corporation
or that has been awarded a power project on the basis of competitive bids for
tariff (including Ultra Mega Power Projects).

 Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, "company" means a company
as defined in clause (20) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013.'.

 18 of 2013.
 Sec. 1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 27

2. In section 13 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2), for clause (d), the following Amendment

clause shall be substituted, namely:— of section
13.

 "(d) the terms and conditions of auction by competitive bidding, the details of
mines and their location, the minimum size of such mines and such other conditions
which may be necessary for the purpose of coal mining operations including mining
for sale by a company under sub-section (/) and sub-section (2) of section 11A.".

 DR. SANJAY SINGH,
Secretary to the Govt. of India.

 PRINTED BY THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, MINTO ROAD, NEW DELHI
AND PUBLISHED BY THE CONTROLLER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI—2015.

GMGIPMRND—5618GI(S3)—31-03-2015.
 283176/2021/P&S-II

F.No.13011/4/2018-CBA2
Government of India
Ministry of Coal
kkk
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi
Dated the qh March, 2019

ORDER

Subject: Methodology for allowing allocatees of coal mines for specified
end use or own consumption to sell upto 25% of actual production on
ROM basis in open market under the Coal Mines (Special Provisions)
Act, 2015 and the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation)
Act, 1957.

 The undersigned is directed to refer to provisions of the Coal Mines
(Special Provisions) Act, 2015, the Rules framed thereunder and the
methodology dated 26.12.2014 for allocation of coal mines by the
Government for specified end-uses viz. for Power (regulated sector) and for
Non-Regulated Sector [Cement, Iron & Steel and Captive Power Production
clubbed together as NRS].

2. In addition to the provisions contained in the methodology dated
26.12.2014 for specified end uses, it has been decided to allow future
allocatees of coal mines for specified end use or own consumption to utilize
a minimum of 75% of actual production (ROM basis) in specified end use
plants and to sell upto 25% of actual production (on ROM basis) in open
market with payment of additional premium on such sale as mentioned in
para 3 below:

3. Definition of Captive Use - Utilization of coal by the Allocattee.

 3.1 In case of coal mines earmarked for specified end uses or own
consumption, the allocatees are mandated to utilize a minimum of 75% of
its actual production (ROM basis) in specified end use plants and are
allowed to sell upto 25% in open market. In case of auctions, the successful
bidder shall be required to pay an additional premium of 15% of its final bid
price on per tonne basis, for the actual quantity of coal sold in open market.
 The additional premium will be over and above the final bid price. In case of
allotments, the successful allottee shall be required to pay an additional
reserve price of 15% of the Reserve Price, for the actual quantity of coal sold
in open market. The additional reserve p rice will be over and above the
Reserve Price.

 3.2 If due to maintenance or shutdown or such other unavoidable reasons,
beyond the control of allocattee, during any part of the year, the allocattee is
not able to use a minimum of 75% of actual production (ROM basis) in
specified end use plant or own consumption, any excess coal out of such
75% of actual production will have to be mandatorily sold by the allocattee

Page 94 of 255

64
283176/2021/P&S-II

to CIL at CIL notified price less 15% of such CIL notified price as per existing
conditions.

 3.3 This would be applicable to auction of coal mines under the 6th and 7th
tranches for which NIT has been floated on 25.10.2018 and for allotment of
mines under the 4th and 5th tranches for which NIA was floated on
11.06.2018 as well as future allocations (auction/allotment).

 4. The provisions contained in Para 3 would be applicable to coal mines to
be allocated under Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015, as well as for
allocation of :coal mines under Mines and Minerals (Development &
Regulation) Act, 1957.

 5. Para 2.6 of O.M. dated 12.10.2018 stands modified to the extent as
indicated in para 3 above.

 (Rishan iang)
 Under Secretary to the Government of India
Tel. No. 23073936

Nominated Authority, MoC
JS (CBA-II), MoC

JS (CBA-I), MoC

DS (CBA-II), MoC

DS (NA), MoC

DS (CBA-I), MoC

Oy ie uk)

Copy for information to:

PS to Minister of Railways and Coal

PS to MoS, Coal

PSO to Secretary (Coal)

PPS to AS (Coal)

PPS to JS (RKS)/PPS to JS (BPP)/ PS to JS (AU)
 Director (Technical), Ministry of Coal

Director (CLD), Ministry of Coal

SOE a oe ah?

Page 95 of 255

65
40
229035/2020/CBA-II

ref a. A-ua- 33004/99 REGD. NO. D. L.-33004/99

Wea sa

Cnt

Che Gazette of India

aloft. -S1.Ve.-31.-29052020-219659
CG-DL-E-29052020-219659

HATATLT
EXTRAORDINARY
art [l—e@vs 3—sY-aus (i)
PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (i)

srferare & sear fart
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

a. 255] ae faeeht, qwaTe, TE 29, 2020/SA8S 8, 1942
No. 255] NEW DELHI, FRIDAY, MAY 29, 2020/JYAISTHA 8, 1942
rare HATA

ae feeeft, 29 HE, 2020

ararfa. 332(4)—oreu are are (fare sede) Getta fara, 2020 ar are ara (fag
sree) fra, 2014 FH atte Hea 2% fre wearer & res See afer FT ards feo ort Ft area a
ate fea & afta area aa, Bre area fers areata ate Gara, ale ars St, ATs EU aTAHTA. a
249 (a), aTera 13 are, 2020 WIT HUTT, ATT-I, GS-3, SI-Ss-(i) F wef Pear WaT AT;

A TAT SF TTT aATATTT site Fearrat Te ferare Pea Tar B;

At: Ua, Heel THe HIATT rt (fasra Seta) aterfray 2015 (2015 wr 11) Ft aver 31 Ft Sa-
amet (1) Tat (2) ET Veet afeat HT TART Hed SU Baa ara (fara Srater) rar, 2014 H site setters
aca ® foro fraferfec faaa aardt 2:-

1. afered are atte we. (1) St Prat ar aera aH eT GTA (Fer Sree) Hatters Fars 2020 21
(2) Fe MTT HF Ser THe AT TTS aT TACT SAT
2. arrears (faere Sota) Fert 2014 F (sas Tae Wer PAH HET TWAT S):—

2317 GI/2020 qd)
229035/2020/CBA-II
2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part II—SEc. 3(i)]

(i) verraat ® feare qe frat F oa are Z, atoat ate seat “APre Ura (FAT Seas) seaTeer 2014
(2014 ar Hearest 5)’ carat Te ATEHT Us sth HITE Ura (fara Sate) afafaaA 2015 (2015 wT 11)’
 BSH AT see TE ATT: sz

(ii) Reve 2 oa-frarm (1) & ae (a) & fare ae Raat A we aa &, ‘eae greg ea ‘aaa
TET STU
3. qa faa, faa 2, o7-faa (1) Fy,
(i) @vs (#),% carat We Perferfad avs ta TT, gate —
‘(®) “afatran’) a aren ara (ere sree) afar 2015 (2015 ar 11) afr z;

(mr) “afer sgem” ar eet adh Shr at BrreT ara (aera Tae) afer 2015 (2015 aT 11)
 AT art 3 At Sa-arer (1) & avs (mH) F Aer fear Tar z;

(Fa) “Aaa Peet cake & arrest A ase Peet ser aah a ad Se TT Weret IST ATA BT
a

(i) TA sae at ae Hea ST; aera
(ii) TA aR arr fara @ aera

(iii) SA aR are Para & a yearet aaa area wT a Oa oats at fae wear a;
aay

(iv) ta ote Ft wa dag Hott ST;

ray — sa avs h Wa & fer dag aod a at ad sem TT act afafaa
2013 (2013 #T 18) Ft arr 2 At St-aret (6) F aaah TAT z;

(1) “arden” A artes atx tart ws ara fate afar 3;
(FA) “aden” A ares afatiaa Ft arr 5 F fee sraer stat F aren A alae 3;
(ii) avs (7)  SaTq Peafefed avs steearite Fee are, eat —

(aa) “rear” & arteries Ft are 4 elt repeat | rarer arat Ft oferet atett are artis
franft ahr 2;

(Ta) “areftarar’ ar afore aot sera fara & are S TT Bre ara Ft Ararat FH are eT’;
(iii) avs (4) Weare Preafefad avs steearhte Peo aret, eat —

‘(aa) “atereca ftee” a afere & ot Brad eta aeare are Pet arrer ara ® fru fae tet

azar sfeercat & rat serera Ht efter & area & arated Pear sre;

(aa) “HTT TAA” F ahs Is FT Aes Sas argh Hare Pert ate ora BH aqare Braet FT

arate ft BAT Seas HET TST HTT HoT ateray FATA site Sra FH aha HA F;

(at) “feta” F arfernter freerst Ft frags aera setert feta ar atfereare aterat Peet eafee arer
fear war Atfeere Prote srerar sahara areca area TTA Were AAT TTT ST A HLT HLA TAT

41
42

229035/2020/CBA-II
 [AMT I—ave 3(i)] Ae HT UAT: TATA 3

TAT NAT ATT AAT WaeTT ATT SMT AAT MALATE HUT AAT AAS LIT AMAT BLES AKT
fifa afta ent’;

(iv) ave (4) F ores Frat & area & aries apes | re ares *& Fru Sekt Aare are Pathe yer’
great & carat oe read Ata & ares & aries aah | are ara & feu eg aca are Pata
Hea ara Tay TAT SATTATT, ;

(v) aus (a), & Sard eateries avs ate: cari feo set, eat —

(aa) “ora Arar’ & afsra 2 ott Ata cals a & set areftaran Ft ra Wes Farle aft
saa wear aafers errr it faar sear zara face erat a are ETT;

(Fa) “ATS STA F a S at TT HoT FS TT Peet aes Hoh A Haag Sr”
(aT) ‘aareora fase wart aaa” F ass J TT Va ara FZ A acer AT ae Wt Fh
 fora eda aa art aria area Ustet arr ofa Pear wa at aie
(i) aeet FT aac Three & Sate FH few ara APA ar are HT Ta Sat AT ST
Faere watrsrt areata & fore Tet ea aS Tart HOTT;

(ii) Tey Beg Stra sath aT ardet HOTT site Sea Soft Ahleq Bre sat HT GAA,
faeare car area arferare FATT VATS ATT Wael AT VATA HUTT;

(wa) “Tage was ATT HT Wares” & are ST Wa ara aS ra acer A raz Ta
fora Setter ears are afaea steer aftencor aver orrftrer ear war et sire

(i) Are FT Was Wisse & Footed & fare Shoe & foro where art Harare ae aver AT
Wat WSS TTT HLA aT HT sta fet Far aT;

(ii) teat AT Tae Tse Fh Prorat * fore ae areata aT aaa ares area Feet
wa HTT BHT PCa aa;

(iii) Tare ere gates atest aa aferetet Ger arare UT AKNT AT TAT TSS
Frater & fore aragae aPh ar aren; catorar faere water aret at arated after array
art & art Pare Wares ST A APT HAT!

 (vi) @e (a) ar ae Peat ST;

(vii) TA WHIe SS (Ht) ATT ara, Prater fad as ata: cafe few ot, arafa:-
(orn) “orien” F are oft pot ar are ar oafe frara, are free at ar et, ofr ert;
(ara) “aferatita arated’ fram 11 so-faaa (8) Ft fafee arafedt a afr 2;
(arr) “aferatita areftarar” fers 10  oa-fere (9) F fee atefrarar & afer 2;

(ra) “Read frat & arfsrre & ait frat Ft sae cafes a eat aefterar area: SAI HET a
ae areft array arafera errr at Uelt erat a arta err Aree fafa eearast F fatafee fear war
a:
229035/2020/CBA-II
4

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(viii) @S (<) H, erect ate stat “area wa F arafed ae | etre ara & ferw Akt aeare are faa
Weg” ed ate othe H ta Oe “arden wT A aT Rat Ata & we Ft ares ape | Ararat ara & few
apatr aeare are Prati yes ar wera” ser TS TTT;

(ix) @S (S) # ears oe Pafefed ae cS TTT, sate:-
“(s) wat arated?’ & aire @ at wa ara fafee anet areftaran ate at arated Z;

(S) “anet arafed? & afsra & reat frre 11 & oo-faaa (9) F fade ardfect & aarfeafe ar
aft ar Fava, & afro, 2 Bra frre 12 agar F Hae ara ares Ft TE Z;

(Sa) “ane areftarar’ a afar & at faa 10 % sa-faaa (10) F fAfee areftarar 2;’:

(x) @S (1) & weave, Frafafea ee ata: carfta Prat sre, erata:-

(a) “aver Fam faa cheat’ & afere & ot aft Fecal sree ater Trent ar site afer
zat wrarhrét ox avait 3960 Aa are (Aa) At earhta aaa ar saa afew aT Oat ser ara
frat Fata aca are fafafee fear war a, areft faeqa chara & erm, free faa afar,
2003 (2003 #1 36) #t earet 63 & dad alsa Acar are afar acer Ar fae wasrarat
fast atten & foro areft Ft areeoff wfhar frat daeft feor-fget & asa ett aca Ft

vee & atu oe i 7e thee ara ohteratcrs ate aR we a Sarat UST aT ae Uae A
azar are fast aate ar were feat sat &; aire

4. 7a frat & fare 7 FH, ofa (2), SS (7) F, “ares Il Brera ara” great are ateat Bh ears I “aT
Il TAT STAT Ae SeaTSA FITS GA FH ATA F ears seer aT alder areer Bara Hea Ft atte a”
et AT seh TA TTT

5. yer fraat & fore 8 A, sa-faa (2) F-

(i) arcs art a, “feraferfera & ater A great & carat oe “Praferfes Pies aed eu” seg TA TTT;
(ii) SS (@) ar ae ea ST;

(iii) Fa THTR aS (GB) ATT aVaTa, Praferfad ata: wari Paw sey, aata:-

“(@ ah) BATT art aed WaT H, Req Braet At cat Goa, ar Braet AT fat ow A aia at
@, afta SI

ToS HUT: - Sat SSH WATT Bh rw, cat aa F et oft Pafee ae soa oo fee ae So
a Peet oft aattorst Fare ar orf Pear Sr aewaT 21”;

(iv) @S (7) H, “Ararat ar arated Hear” great Bh ea Ue “Ita tart at Rad tart we ales area
ar frat ec” sree TA TAT

6. Fat Fraat & Fears 10 F,-
(i) Ta-Fraa (3) F, -
(®) es () F eaTA Oe Praferhaa ae Ta TNT, aaa:

43
229035/2020/CBA-II

[art Il—ave 3(i)] AIT BT USAT» AATATT 5
“(h) BIA GT aden Seem A, Peg Braet At cast Gra, ar Arar Ht ahh owe St Ae
wal @, tte a1";

(@) Gs (7) Fears Oe Pafafad ae TS TUT, aaia:-

“(T) arate Ata 4 daa Patera o oat F Hicad ftert are Harare Yes at Rast
Arart  araet A gaa stra, Rad start & are A fast gear, cera ard, After
aratiora eer Ft whan ate area aa ferer Gara orfaret 2;”;

(7) @e (S.) FH eITA Oe Praferfaa ae car ao, aata:-

“(s.) frre 13 & sa-faam (5) Ft fafafee ane atefterar & ara Peo art art veafat
rca TST”;

(ii) a-Fraa (4) F: -

(*) @z (@) F, Sa-as (@) & Gare Patera so-as ata: earita Paw sew, aata:-
“aq) Fadia arett aor area so-so at az F faerie fear or aera Z, frees Fett aa
are aati aaa ST”;
(@) ae (7) S-aS (iil) F, “TAA, TRA Sores Her” seat Bh fore “ae TAT BH wT areft
ofasia” steq te SITET;
(T) SS (7) wr aT Fa STOTT;
(iii) Sa-Feevat (4) & Tear, Praferfed so-fraa stearite feu ores, aata:-

“(4) TA areal F Tet Berea ara AY tert arferfera FY errer (4) At Sa-arer (3) tea Ft TE AT
ate Pret poet at arret are (fase rae) setter fara, 2020 & area & Gee aH aTefteraT
arte Pear war et, ca Wa at Seftarar AT a HTT AAT FH AATT BTA ITA HLA AY TATA
te Het areftarar ar arden art ST Kt aT St Star Ft sragarHa sare Te arate ST
ame at ath”
(4a) arrer art (Fasra Sra) Setters ers, 2020 % area arena Frees At ara Fh vara
arate erat ara Ft treat & araet A, wet Breer Aart are ateftaray ae areftaray aT
STAT @, Ta Ua Ale SAT FH GATT HAT WTA HET AAT TTT BT Sa Tae Te HA PAT ST
waar & aT oft fafaar cera F aaa fee orferars are fatafee frat war at
(471) a Aree F wet cas AT aa & vast A Fraet ara Ataret ® few APRs Ft oct Z, aa
aa srart Rater FY erat, fare fore ateftaran ateft oor tar Z, Brae settee Ft ers SA
aqara & ent sit ffaar aecarast F fatafee fear war en”;
(iv) st-feere (5) &, “ar erat sit ret ott ar sett were ost a tae oat a ardfed Pear at evar
@ reat EIT Ue “AT HTT Seat aT Sah Pett ot sao, recht Peet poet ar seach gare poet aT
aren adh ar daar aT aye HIT aT SaHt erry oT Hr Arras at or cent S, sete H Peet ter
ATAavS Oe aaa STAT” ores TA TTT;

44
229035/2020/CBA-II
6

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(v) sa-fra (9) F, "aTafafatee sofeenrh aarfte aor" oreat & carat az, “arafatafee orferert Arar
ahora & arare oe aaa areftaren At aro BUT ate aaTita ea” ahaa ear seat

7. oat Fraat & faa 11 F—

(i) a-frarm (2) F, “Peet acer aot at cee & fore at arated erat ar arr & sere, ar erat, Ft
afc tear fafifee aon" sreat cart ae" Peet aot ar fra at sath aerae ar atfest Fost at
aeanht aofat ar age Ft aahat ar sae seat ar arated feu ot wat are BTA Scat AT Sa
Pet caters & are Ft Peet er Gearfiex F ararx 9 arat aT Braet ere AT aferpea Tear at we e Aha
fafatafts ax aad 2" car se;

(ii) So-Fere (3) A" WH adet seaTaST dae HOT AT AST TEATAIT" Meal A eITT UT “ade TAT
fore Ue TETAS GATE HOTT, AAT AST SEAT" Mer TS ATTA;
(iii) T4-Fezat (4) F, -
(%) ae ()   ferohrea ae car are, Fata: -
"“(n) afea HAA GTA Bh alder HT Sees, APs Brae Ft eat aa ar Braet AY faht aH aia at
a"
(@) Sz (7) H, greg "Tra FT ora" Tear, aes "ates & fers aaa Her AT oa,” ate eaTltt
frat sre;
(7) Gs (7) F Tare Pafefad wae sicearite Pear sre, arate: -
“aed Haat are rast aaa arora Gare set AT TE B, TTA orferarsl arse sate F artet
ae sa ae Ft art & fore ara gaat & ara arefera aes PAA Pee ae aa z; ae THT ATT AT
frat 13 & oa-fiae (5) Ff fafafee aqareatice aaa & sftare aretera Ftra ar Ta HET
fora saat FH UH aT ST A eH ory veda Het anf, der fe arafatafee orfaart art
fafafatés far ot aera 21”

(4) @e (4) & fora Praferfad Gs car are, sata: -
"“(a) fre 13 & so-fae (5) Ft afafee Peo re aq eet ara feat & arr few at art weaTfat
UTE BT AAT":
(iv) s4-FraH (6) F, -
(#) BS (4) HT ATT ITT;
(a) ae (B) F, -
(i) arcie art 4, "Reet ot fattite cca srart & foro" erect & fora, "wat Ft ara & few"
great aT wfaeatite Pear STAT;
(ii) Sa-ae (iil) F "fae tease" seat Hearst UE “aT wT A fafafee" eee ca
SIGE
(v) 34-Ferere (8) 2 caret oe Patera oo-fam car sua, rata:

45
229035/2020/CBA-II

[ATT [ave 3(i)] AT BT UT: TATA 7

"(8) aTafafes srfaardt ardea via & afore arare ae ate arafeat Ft atoor Sor aie aT
arafeat  aaret a aater HT acne BT rod Pererheet ASTI"
(vi) Sa-frere (10) F dtr aeare At aot ar fra AY aq | Brrear ara" otee site oth EIT WT
Fraferfec car arom, sat:
“APA | BTA aT, —
(i) wae aeearet Hot at Fare rear cathe ar waers ats ae ITA S, aT
(i) Eom & ears oe oft ere are (steer FT aaz wists Alea) & avare ae afataotier At art areft
fers forge oRattrar Ht preret ST Be carat Te RTT eM aT FATA:

ae tftp & cara oe often ate (areer Aa atae wise aed)  arare ae aatS At TAT
aret fetes free afatorat Ft pret Seat ears oe wee ar eT ar Fre er STE sats
aden  araet F ata aeare them hearst oe afer a cea fee Hares, ATT ACHE aT
aati tet acardt aot ar erst ar Oa ere sats Bh ears Ue decd fated: arden Ta aT
aot ate acaeard fee afar aaa afahote Reo ort oe sffea ardet avast frat 13
H faftee ofan & arpare srt rar STE
(vii) So-Frert 10 aearq Prafetad so-fae ate: carta fra ser, arate: -

“(11) aerrer AY cat AT aoe vars A rrr AT GTA arated ATA A eT UH eT aT
Tad aa aaa THe aa TA GAT @, TT WS Brae Feast FH qa F Slr wa Her} fear
wa ane ardteat Ft seared, arafafes orfeeart art area eearasr F fafatee few we aac 4x
HH Sl THA el”
8. yer frat Ft fears 12 & ear oz, Praferfaa car area stata:
12. faga afaersit ® fare thts arent ofteratcrn atett & arenx at arent — (1) Raat 8, 9 ar 11
safes fret ara ate eu sft, hate aca afearftae Ft arr 5 Sa-aret (1) Sadat apa ae |
 At Peet oft arrer area ar fee Fares Farce ATT are WA arent & fore arqerhra Peet ot poet ar

arated ae aadt & Bre te acer art shea aaeft we Paes ws erat oe acer Fo fae WRatsaTsit
ated then q witeratcren atett  arare oe fee ohare sare Ft TE ST

(2) ektr were at | Frazer erat At att afer ra ex aaah or sa fare 2 ded ade Aq Tree
anft car 0a arden & fru Fae wa ord off faPafte ax aah”

9. Her fart & frre 13 &, -

(i) Sa-Fram (1) Farah" greg ea Oe "HT TAT" Ses TA TTA;

(ii) sa-Fraa (3) H, avs (wm) "oT" tes & fore "whee" Mes AT TST STOTT;

(iii) T4-Fezat (4) F, -
(®) arcitre ant A "aret ateftarat at areata" great 2 cara a, “aot ardfedi" erez Ta
SIGE

46
229035/2020/CBA-II
8

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(@) Gs (ii) F, "wa aH ae Fale aa are fafafee aqaried ara ater F fates Ft ws
avedt ace fratite aaa ve weadt 3" eat cara oz, "sa-faaa (5) Ft fahtee wae F
Fe Te AGATR" er TI STU;

(7) Gz (iii) & Tae Prafefed seg ata-earhte Peart sre start: -

“ae Pret acardt aot ar fre ar then & foro ofterelf atett  arare ae arated Ft ry

are feras faeqea Thats (aeet FT ora sisrre Aaa) F Braet Sra & fore Fas 11

 a-frere (10) deat arated Pu ort Ft fafa A fee Fares, dtr aca ares at

feu we feor-freet & aqare ofteref ateft & arare ae otae wre aT ats HA Fh ATS

ae aad At are Saree Storer Ths eearet are Feared tH TET vara Ft Strutt”
(iv) s7-frere (5) & wara, Prefered so-faa ataearite feat area, arate: -

"(5%) Sa-faaa (5) F fafafee wae & Prater we erat at Bre sate & fore aaa oe Ft tera site ora F
wa aa fstaat wa oat & are omer Fear set fares kts Acar aT asa aa aft Rarea fas,
1960 dad SIA Arad & site afer faa fam, 2004 & fara 9 & daa ara Gras Ft aaa Br
a, sT-frare (2) # fafa fee Hae BATA AT STATI

(5a) afer farm fret, 2004 fara 9 aed ara Glas Ft aqahe Ba oe ae arafedt, Gat AAT
Tae HUTS HT Seared affera aHesd fore so- fre (4) Tea els Tea AT Sas are At TE HrI-
frooret de aredt At ole  aaes TST aH Tet A eH far ord site aaRaddia ari-faorred tar
aredt at:

Wed Ader eR (AeeT AAT Wat Wsree Alea) fore whaeref set HF ara ae aT ay are
wafers free Rats F arret sear Se Peet areas ett sera fare ar fare 11 oa-fra (10)
atta Par ara @, at fee area Fate ears art art Pew ae feen-feart & aqare where arett
amare oe fae aa ater & ave at arafedt At ace a aera sara Areas F Paes aT
frcores dae aredt Ff sah
(51) sa-fra (4) & stenta dt we faoorad de aret so-faa (5a) aed roared dH TST AA HF are
ayzat oa-fram (5) # fafafee are 2 aaa SIA ars fea ara, saa A TT At veer A, THe aad at
area at at Testh”;

(v) sa-frere (6) F, “site eat fara” sree ® fore ar feet ter aera Ted Gert TS AY te He AT fea F,
greg “site or Frater, after aefRe ft Peter wes orct ar Seca He Wz, Tero aaa, GAT TS aT
yaar aaa site aa oe, Peet ser erga ary art oe Se Parad ar eg wed At feafe 4, waxat we
ferfaa Fat feo srt are erect & fro dia aa AT Ta A ade BT ae HA ® few ae Ra F
asia @, cafe cea sears At faite ae” Gar se”

10. Wa fant & faa 14 F, -

(i) ofitee H, «oF arafect & form” sreat ar etre rar sre;

(ii) = sa Fere (1) FH, “aed arated ar Sa” great aat Stat carat ae, area, er are Pea STAT

47
48

229035/2020/CBA-II
 [AMT I—ave 3(i)] Ae HT UAT: TATA 9

11. Her frat & fram 15 F, -
(®) oft Fad arafedt & aera area operat ar ar” great * ears Oe, "TPRR” See TET STOTT;
(a) -sa-fraa (1) &, -

(i) “aR ate are aaa A Sera aT” areal, SAT carat Oe are , Beara, “ATA Pee orferart  arer
weet arafedt arr sar feu we feat” ster TA TTT

(ji) Gs (@) *oe9r, Pafafad ade aacearite Pear sre sat
“(T) Tl At Hare ara F Aaa H TS arafect Ht ea aN’;
12. qa frat & faa 17 Fea Wy, Pafefed ae car oe, aaa:

“47. Oa: Ate a Ga: ardent - fe aq At Peet rarer ara ar ares Fare 10, 11 atzaT 12 &
aqare set Pear Sra S aT ee at Peet Stare ara SB aafera Peach areer ar arden araar at Peet ff
are & aaa Het fear sar , aarfeata St, ar arahatee wrferers ar fave 10 & aaa ararer frat eer
aaa fre 11 at fare 12 aed FT Ge HT Alder Hes HT afar ST aerd WS aresr aT AAT
aeart ae 8 dea STAT Hea Sth AAT”

13. yer frat & faa 19 F, -

(i) oa-ferra (1) Har uae rer ferent ares” great wT ATT FAT STOTT;

(ii) = sa- Frere (2) F, Ge (7) Hae, Prafafec ae at sta: erfte Pear ore, aata:-
“(a) Terral & Brrer ferent ar eater, ale aE B,”;

(iii) = so-FRere (2) & ware, Praferfed ofan ata: earite Pear orem, sata:

“(2m) aaat HT A Teer, Tett Ht ae afafera Hea srr Pe ash cerare ATHATaTe HITT UTA 7h
ardedt aera Bret Fear Sa re sera HA aTaT He HA BH Of ara ast SOT PH
HUT AT SATA HT ATA SI’;

(iv) 9 sa-Frera (4) agar, Prefered so-Paa aecearite feo set; seater:

“(4) Fatt AH ATT AqHad Ba BAT He Mt od we aanft rah Tea WH Here AT seca BH few

mereret at are PRAT STOTT

(4a) Ta were aT Sacra *& forrest Fh aTare Uz, BTA Gra F GT Taerst HA AT HITT feast TT

BAA WTS BA ATA Terre Cah Hae Eras aT Hae Pept A Aafast Saari Ar ASaq HOM’;

(v) - sa-feera (5)  agara, Prefered so-faae ay atocearite Pear sea, aata:-

“(6) arafedt fre sees (aver FT Tae Tree Aiea) * ferw witch ate avare ae ath we aah
fage wRatsrear Farrer & sea eq faa 11 safer (10) azat fre 12 % ded ae are at
arated Prat wat 2, Ta sacra aT eae A orf SA HT Ts AST SET”

14. - yor Frat & fra 20 F, -

229035/2020/CBA-II
10

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(i) sa-frva (1) A, “avavea ® fore sere Hoel” great BH carat ae “saree Fre are at ar sath wera
ert” seq TA STU;
(ii) = sa- Fra (3) agar, Prafefad so-fae at stoeafte Pear sre, stata:

“(4) arafedt Bre geen (aeet FT oat Tse afeat) & fore often are  arare oe aT TE
aafea fee oR F arret & saat Sq Pas 11 o-Ps (10) azar frre 12 & aed
are art Bl arated Pear war S, WA Sears aT Here F ore Slr aT ITs aT SPT”

15. yer frat & fam 26 F, -

(#) sa-Frae (1) 4,
(i) “apa” grea & fore, “SAM” seq TAT STAT;
(ii) “rqeet-l Ft sree ara” stect site ate ears az, “agai At strat art ar Peet
serrate arrear are Bree Part areer serar atest aresr AT AAA He Far WaT z,” eat site
FH TS TUT,

(@) sa Frre (2) F, “are” greg site tp ar are Pra STOTT;

(7) - safer (4) F, Ge (@) FF, “ore” ores ate ate er at aT TTT

16. Wet frat & fa 27 2 Paes (3) ears Oe Paferfee o-Ps car are, stata:

“(3) aes ll errear |@ra aT Seareace Bre ares rear Part areer AT araea Tee TATa He Fear Tar

@, are &, aaa afseera arr war freer fear sar 2 a, Wa a om TT aes Safar Ble UTA
% HoT Hl ATA Tel aT S da eH Atafedt aria afsreerH AT fret A aafera Brae ara aT afta HT”

17. aa frat & fram 30 4, sofas (1) & oeara, Prater so-fae sta: earite fear oreo,
wate

“(a) afta afseern ar so-faa (1) & atta veo ofeeat ar wart oft ait afters art,

rntra Rada aed, sores Peat oft sa ara & sate A Pear ore rear fare areer aera
ardent areet aaa He SAT TAT SI”

 [roa aftefte2-1301 1/1/2020-4Fr4172]

ute pare ferret, Aa APT

feoquy: Wer Frere area arr. fF.883(a) aretha 11 feetax, 2014 art Aiea UIT, ATT-II, GS-3, TGS
(i) # warfere few ae site TAT. 782 (A), Ta 18 ATS, 2015 arer sifam are aenfera feat TAT ATI

49
229035/2020/CBA-II

[ATT [ave 3(i)] AT BT UT: TATA 11

MINISTRY OF COAL
NOTIFICATION
New Delhi, the 29th May, 2020

G.S.R. 332(E). — WHEREAS, the draft Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Amendment Rules, 2020 proposing
to amend the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014 were published in in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3,
Sub-section (i) vide number G.S.R. 249 (E), dated the 13" April, 2020, inviting objections and suggestions, if any, to the
Government of India, Ministry of Coal within thirty days from the date on which the said notification was made
available to the public;

AND WHEREAS objections and suggestions received from the public have been considered;

NOW, therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 31 of the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of 2015), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules further to amend the Coal
Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014, namely:—

1. Short title and commencement. — (1) These rules may be called the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Amendment
Rules, 2020.

 (2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
 2. In the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014 (hereinafter referred to as the principal rules):—

(i) throughout the principal rules wherever they occur, except in the preamble, for the words, brackets and figures, “Coal
Mines (Special Provisions) Ordinance, 2014 (Ord. 5 of 2014)”, the words, brackets and figures “Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of 2015) shall be substituted; and

(ii) throughout the principal rules wherever they occur, except in clause (j) of sub-rule (1) of rule 2, for the word,
“Ordinance”, the word “Act” shall be substituted.

 3. In the principal rules, rule 2, sub-rule (1),
(i) for clause (a), the following clauses shall be substituted, namely: —
“(a) “Act” means the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of 2015);

(aa) “addit ional levy” has the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (a) of sub-section (1) section 3 of the
Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of 2015);

(ab) “affiliate” with respect to any person shall mean any other person who, directly or indirectly: —
(i) controls such person; or
(ii) is controlled by such person; or
(iii) is controlled by the same person who, directly or indirectly, controls such person; or
(iv) is an associate company of such person.

 Explanation— For the purpose of this clause "associate company" shall have the same meaning as
assigned to it in sub-section (6) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013);

(ac) “allocation” means allotment and auction referred together;
(ad) “allotment” means allotment of coal blocks referred to in section 5 of the Act;’;
(ii) after clause (c), the following clauses shall be inserted, namely:—

“(ca) “auction” means the public auction by competitive bidding of Schedule I coal mines under section 4 of the
Act;

(cb) “bidder” means a company or corporation which participate in auction of coal mine;’;
(ili) after clause (d), the following clauses shall be inserted, namely:—

“(da) “ceiling price” means a price or percentage fixed by the Central Government for a coal mine which is to
be allocated by way of reverse auction;

(db) “coal linkage” means a contract entered between coal producing Government company or corporation and
consumer for supply of coal in accordance with the terms and conditions of the relevant fuel supply agreement;

(de) “control” shall include the right to appoint majority of the directors or to control the management or policy
decisions exercisable by a person or persons acting individually or in concert, directly or indirectly, including

50
229035/2020/CBA-II

12 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part II—SEc. 3(i)]

by virtue of their shareholding or management rights or shareholders agreements or voting agreements or in
any other manner;’;

(iv) in clause (f), for the words “the price fixed by the Central Government for a Schedule I coal mine allocated by way
of auction”, the words “a price or percentage fixed by the Central Government for a Schedule I coal mine allocated by
way of forward auction” shall be substituted;

(v) after clause (f), the following clauses shall be inserted, namely: —

“(fa) “forward auction” means the method of auction where the bidders shall be required to successively quote
the bid higher than the floor price, subject to such conditions as may be specified in the tender document;

(fb) “group company” means a company which is an affiliate of another company;”

(fc) “infrastructure special purpose vehicle” means an entity incorporated by the nodal agency designated by
the Central Government for the purposes of Ultra Mega Power Projects and shall —

(i) hold the land required for the construction of the Ultra Mega Power Project and grant the said land
under lease or licence to the operating special purpose vehicle;

(ii) hold the allocation of the domestic captive coal block and grant the mining, development and
operation rights of the said domestic captive coal block to the operating special purpose vehicle;

(fd) “operating special purpose vehicle” means an entity incorporated by the nodal agency designated by the
Central Government for the purpose of an Ultra Mega Power Project and shall —

(i) be transferred to the awardee of an Ultra Mega Power Project on the basis of competitive bids for
tariff for the execution of the Ultra Mega Power Projects;

(ii) execute the power purchase agreement with the distribution licensees for execution of the Ultra
Mega Power Project;

(iii) hold the land required for the construction of the Ultra Mega Power Project on lease basis
acquired in the name of infrastructure special purpose vehicle; act as a mine development operator of
the captive coal mine allocated to the infrastructure special purpose vehicle;’;

(vi) clause (j) shall be omitted;

(vii) after clause (j) so omitted, the following clauses shall be inserted, namely:—
“(ja) “person” shall include any company or association or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not;
(jb) “preferred allottee” means the allottee as referred to in sub-rule (8) of rule 11;
(jc) “preferred bidder” means the bidder as referred to in sub-rule (9) of rule 10;

(jd) “reverse auction” means the method of auction where the bidders shall be required to successively quote
the bid lower than the ceiling price, subject to such conditions as may be specified in the tender document;’;

(viii) in clause (k), for the words and figure “the price fixed by the Central Government for a Schedule I coal mine
allocated by way of allotment”, the words and figure “a price or percentage fixed by the Central Government for a
Schedule I coal mine allocated by way of allotment or by way of reverse auction” shall be substituted;

(ix) for clause (m), the following clauses shall be substituted, namely:—
“(m) “successful allocatee” means the successful bidder and successful allottee referred together;

(ma) “successful allottee’” means the allottee as referred to in sub-rule (9) of rule 11 or a company, or as the
case may be, corporation to whom coal mine has been allotted in pursuance of rule 12;

(mb) “successful bidder” means the bidder as referred to in sub-rule (10) of rule 10;’;
(x) after clause (0), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:—

“(p) “Ultra Mega Power Project” shall mean a power project based on supercritical coal thermal technology or
more efficient technology, with installed capacity of 3960 Mega Watt (MW) or above or such other capacity as
may be specified by the Central Government, from which power procurement is tied up by procurers in more
than one State or Union territory, through tariff based competitive bidding initiated through a Central
Government initiative under the Guidelines for Determination of Tariff Through Transparent Process of
Bidding for Procurement of Power from Ultra Mega Power Projects notified by Central Government under
section 63 of the Electricity Act, 2003 (36 of 2003)’.

 51
229035/2020/CBA-II

[art II—ave 3(i)] ATCT HT UAT : TATA 13

4. In the principal rules, in rule 7, in sub-rule (2), in clause (p), for the words and figures, “Schedule II coal mine;”, the
words and figures, “Schedule II coal mine and on the date of termination of vesting order or allotment order in case of a
coal mine under production;” shall be substituted.

 5. In the principal rules, in rule 8, in sub-rule (2),—

(i) in the opening portion, for the words “regarding the following”, the words “specifying the following” shall be
substituted;

(ii) clause (b) shall be omitted.;

(iii) after clause (b) so omitted, the following shall be inserted, namely:—

“(ba) the purpose of allocation of the coal mine including, but not limited to, own consumption of coal, or for
sale of coal.

 Explanation— For the purposes of this clause, own consumption may include consumption of coal in any
specified end use or in any combination of specified end uses.”;

(iv) in clause (c), for the words “conducting auction or allotment”, the words “conducting allotment or conducting
auction including by way of forward auction or reverse auction” shall be substituted.

 6. In the principal rules, in rule 10,—
(i) in sub-rule (3),—
(a) for clause (a), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—

“(a) the purpose of allocation of the coal mine including, but not limited to, own consumption of coal,
or for sale of coal; ”;

(b) for clause (c), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—

“(c) the terms and conditions associated with the public auction, including the floor price in case of
forward auction or the ceiling price in case of reverse auction, reserve price in case of reverse auction,
eligibility conditions, the process of conduct of auction and other related information;”;

(c) for clause (e), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—

“(e) specimen of agreement proposed to be entered into with the successful bidder as specified in sub-
tule (5) of rule 13.”;

(ii) in sub-rule (4),—
(a) in clause (b), after sub-clause (B), the following sub-clause shall be inserted, namely:—

“(C) The financial bid stage may be divided into such sub-stages or rounds as may be deemed expedient by
the Central Government.”;

(b) in sub-clause (iii) of clause (c), for the words “provide security, guarantee.”, the words “bid security in the
form of bank guarantee.” shall be substituted;

(c) clause (d) shall be omitted;
(iii) after sub-rule (4), the following sub-rules shall be inserted, namely:—

“(4A) In cases where auction of a coal mine has been conducted under sub-section (3) of section (4) of the Act
and a company has been declared successful bidder before the commencement of the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Amendment Rules, 2020, then the entitlement of such successful bidder to receive coal pursuant to
such coal linkage shall stand proportionately reduced on the basis of the requirement of coal being met from the
mine allocated to such successful bidder.

 (4B) In cases of auction of coal mine for the purpose of own consumption of coal conducted after the
commencement of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Amendment Rules, 2020 where a bidder having a coal
linkage becomes the successful bidder, then the entitlement to receive coal pursuant to such coal linkage may
be reduced on such basis as may be specified by the nominated authority in the tender document.

 (4C) In case the coal mine is specified for auction for the purpose of own consumption, then the capacity of the
end use project for which a bidder is bidding shall be in such proportion to the capacity of coal block as may be
specified in the tender document.”;

(iv) in sub-rule (5), for the words “or both that may be allocated to a company or its subsidiary or associate companies”,
the words “or a limit based on any other parameter regarding production of coal or any combination thereof that may be

52
229035/2020/CBA-II

14 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part II—SEc. 3(i)]

auctioned to a company or corporation or its subsidiary or holding company or associate companies or group companies
or its affiliate” shall be substituted;

(v) in sub-rule (9), for the words “the nominated authority shall forward”, the words “the nominated authority shall
declare the preferred bidder on the basis of the result of auction and shall forward” shall be substituted.

 7. In the principal rules, in rule 11—

(i) in sub-rule (2) for the words “shall specify the maximum number of mines or coal reserves or both that may be
allotted to a Government company or corporation of a State”, the words “may specify the maximum number of mines or
coal reserves or a limit based on any other parameter regarding production of coal or any combination thereof that may
be allotted to a company or corporation or its subsidiary or holding company or associate companies or group companies
or its affiliate” shall be substituted;

(ii) in sub-rule (3), for the words “shall prepare an allotment document that is, the allotment document”, the words “shall
prepare a document for the allotment process, that is, the allotment document” shall be substituted;

(iii) in sub-rule (4),—
(a) for clause (a), the following clause shall be substituted, namely: —

“(a) the purpose of allotment of the coal mine including, but not limited to, own consumption of coal
or for sale of coal;”;

(b) in clause (c) after the words “eli gibility conditions,”, the words “procedure for making application for
allotment,” shall be inserted;

(c) after clause (c), the following proviso shall be inserted, namely: —

“Provided that in case the coal mine whose mining plan has not been prepared, the nominated
authority may specify the reserve price after the allotment of coal block and preparation of mining
plan for such mine; and the successful allottee shall furnish an undertaking as a part of the agreement,
as specified in sub-rule (5) of rule 13, to pay the reserve price within the specified time, as may be
specified by the nominated authority.”;

(d) for clause (d), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—

“(d) specimen of agreement proposed to be entered into with the successful allottee as specified in
sub-rule (5) of rule 13.”;

(iv) in sub-rule (6),—
(a) clause (d) shall be omitted;
(b) in clause (g),—

(i) in the opening portion, for the words “towards any specified end use”, the words “for own
consumption” shall be substituted;

(ii) in sub-clause (iii), for the words “the specified end-use”, the words “specified as the purpose” shall be
substituted;

(v) for sub-rule (8), the following sub-rule shall be substituted, namely: —

“(8) The nominated authority shall declare the preferred allottee on the basis of the result of allotment process
and shall forward its recommendations to the Central Government with regard to the selection of the successful
allottee.”;

(vi) in sub-rule (10), for the words and figure “Schedule I coal mine to a Central Government company or corporation.”,
the following shall be substituted, namely:—

“Schedule I coal mine to,—
(i) a Government company or corporation owned, managed or controlled by the Central Government, or

(ii) a Government company or corporation for utilisation of coal in the linked power project to be awarded on
the basis of competitive bid for tariff (including Ultra Mega Power Project):

Provided that in case of allotment of a coal block to a Government company or corporation for
utilisation of coal in the linked power project to be awarded on the basis of competitive bid for tariff (including
Ultra Mega Power Project), the Central Government shall first issue an in-principle allotment letter for such
coal block to such Government company or corporation recommended by the Government of India in the
Ministry of Power before the competitive bidding for tariff and thereafter on successful award of power project,
the final allotment order shall be issued in accordance with the process specified in rule 13.”

53
229035/2020/CBA-II

[ATT [ave 3(i)] AT BT UT: TATA 15

(vii) after sub-rule 10, the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely: —

“(11) In cases of allotment of coal mine for the purpose of own consumption of coal where an applicant having
a coal linkage becomes the successful allottee, then the entitlement of such successful allottee to receive coal
pursuant to such coal linkage may be reduced on such basis as may be specified by the nominated authority in
the allotment document.”.

 8. In the principal rules, for rule 12, the following shall be substituted, namely: —

“12. Allotment on the basis of tariff based competitive bidding for power projects.- (1) Notwithstanding anything
contained in rules 8, 10 or 11, the Central Government may in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (1) of
section 5 of the Act, allot any Schedule I coal mine to any company recommended for such allotment by the
Government of India in the Ministry of power, which has been awarded power project on the basis of competitive bids
for tariff) including Ultra Mega Power Projects), on such terms and conditions as the Central Government may deem
expedient.

 (2) The Central Government may notify a list of such Schedule I coal mines which would be available for allotment
under this rule and may also specify the terms and conditions for such allotment.”.

 9. In the principal rules in rule 13,—

(i) in sub-rule (1), for the word “allottee”, the words “successful allottee” shall be substituted;

(ii) in sub-rule (3), in clause (a), for the word “proceeds”, the word “compensation” shall be substituted;
(iii) in sub-rule (4),—

(a) in the opening portion, for the words “successful bidder or allottee”, the words “successful allocatee” shall
be substituted;

(b) in clause (ii), for the words “till it reaches its peak rated capacity as specified in the approved mine plan as
may be specified by the Central Government”, the words “as provided in the agreement specified in
sub-rule (5)” shall be substituted;

(c) after clause (iii), the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:—

“Provided that in case the allotment is made under sub-rule (10) of rule 11 to a Government company
or corporation for utilisation of coal in the linked power project to be awarded on the basis of
competitive bid for tariff (including Ultra Mega Power Project), the performance Bank Guarantee
shall be provided by the operating special purpose vehicle on behalf of the successful allottee after
award of power project on the basis of competitive bidding in accordance with the guidelines issued
by the Central Government in the Ministry of Power.” ;

(iv) after sub-rule (5), the following sub-rules shall be inserted, namely:—

“(5A) The terms and conditions of the agreement as specified in sub-rule (5) shall be included in terms and
conditions of the mining lease for the coal block along with any other terms and conditions that the Central Government
or the State Government may deem fit under the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960 and upon grant of the mine opening
permission under rule 9 of the Colliery Control Rules, 2004, the agreement as specified in sub-rule (5) shall stand
terminated.

 (5B) Upon grant of the mine opening permission under rule 9 of the Colliery Control Rules, 2004, the successful
allocatee shall provide an unconditional and irrevocable performance bank guarantee in favour of the State Government
for the amount equivalent to the performance bank guarantee submitted by it to the Central Government under sub-rule
(4) for ensuring the production of coal as per the mining plan:

Provided that in case the allotment is made under sub-rule (10) of rule 11 to a Government company or
corporation for utilisation of coal in the linked power project to be awarded on the basis of competitive bid for tariff
(including Ultra Mega Power Project), the performance bank guarantee shall be provided by the operating special
purpose vehicle on behalf of the successful allottee after award of power project on the basis of competitive bidding in
accordance with guidelines issued by the Central Government in the Ministry of Power.

 (5C) The performance bank guarantee submitted under sub-rule (4) shall be returned to the successful allocatee after
submission of performance bank guarantee under sub-rule (5B) or after sixty days of termination of the agreement as
specified in sub-rule (5), whichever is earlier.” ;

(v) in sub-rule (6), for the words “and these rules, or in the event of cancellation of mining lease under any other law in
force”, the words “and these rules, on recommendation of the State Government concerned in the event of breach of
terms and conditions of reconnaissance permit, prospecting license, mining lease or prospecting license-cum-mining

54
229035/2020/CBA-II

16 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

lease, in the event of cancellation of said concessions under any other law in force, or it is expedient in public interest to
terminate the allocation in the opinion of the Central Government, for the reasons to be recorded in writing” shall be
substituted.

 10. In the principal rules, in rule 14,—

(i) in the heading, the words “to the prior allottee” shall be omitted;

(ii) in sub-rule(1), the words “payable to the prior allottee”’, at both the places where they occur, shall be omitted.
 11. In the principal rules, in rule 15,—

(a) in the heading, for the words “proceeds to persons other than the prior allottee”, the word “compensation” shall be
substituted;

(b) in sub-rule (1),—

(i) for the words “proceeds arising out of land and mine infrastructure”, at both the places where they occur, the words
“compensation deposited by the successful allocattee with the nominated authority” shall be substituted;

(ii) after clause (b), the following clause shall be inserted, namely: —
“(c) amount payable to the prior allottee in respect of Schedule I coal mine.”.
 12. In the principal rules, for rule 17, the following rule shall be substituted, namely:—

“17, Re-auction and re-allotment. — In case any Schedule I coal mine is not allocated pursuant to rules 10, 11 or 12, or
the vesting order or allotment order in respect of any Schedule I coal mine is terminated, as the case may be, the
nominated authority shall have the power to re-initiate auction under rule10 or allotment of the coal mine under rule 11
or rule 12, subject to such order as the Central Government may deem fit to issue under rule 8.”.

 13. In the principal rules, in rule 19,—

(i) in sub-rule (1), the words “or a coal linkage holder” shall be omitted;

(ii) in sub-rule (2), after clause (c), the following clause shall be inserted, namely: —
“(d) details of coal linkages of the parties, if any.”;

(ili) after sub-rule (2), the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely:—

“(2A) Before applying, the parties shall ensure that all parties to the arrangement or agreement are otherwise
eligible for the allocation of the coal mine or grant of coal linkage, as the case may be, which are subject matter
of such agreement or arrangement.”;

(iv) after sub-rule (4), the following sub-rules shall be inserted, namely:—

“(4A) The Central Government while granting its approval may impose any condition which shall be binding
on the parties to such agreement or arrangement.

 (4B) Upon execution of such agreement or arrangement, the party carrying out the mining operations in the
coal mine or receiving coal under coal linkage shall bear the liabilities in relation to such coal mine or coal
linkage.” ;

(v) after sub-rule (5), the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely:—

“(6) An allottee to whom the coal mine has been allotted under sub-rule (10) of rule 11 for utilisation of coal in
the linked power project awarded on the basis of competitive bid for tariff (including Ultra Mega Power
Project) or under rule 12, shall not be entitled to enter into such arrangement or agreement.”.

 14. In the principal rules, in rule 20,—

(i) in sub-rule (1), for the words “subsidiary company for common”, the words “holding company or its subsidiary
company for same” shall be substituted;

(ii) after sub-rule (3), the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely: —

“(4) An allottee to whom the coal mine has been allotted under sub-rule (10) of rule 11 for utilisation of coal in
the linked power project awarded on the basis of competitive bid for tariff (including Ultra Mega Power
Project) or under rule 12, shall not be entitled to enter into such arrangement or agreement.”.

 15. In the principal rules, in rule 26,—
(a) in sub-rule (1),—

(i) for the word “may”, the word “shall” shall be substituted;

55
56

229035/2020/CBA-II
[art II—ave 3(i)] ATCT HT UAT : TATA 17

(ii) for the words and figure “Schedule I coal mine”, the words and figure “Schedule II coal mine or a coal
mine under production whose vesting order or allotment order has been terminated,” shall be substituted;

(b) in sub-rule (2) , the word and figure “Schedule I” shall be omitted;
(c) in sub-rule (4), in clause (b), the word and figure “Schedule I’”’ shall be omitted.
 16. In the principal rules, in rule 27, for sub-rule (3), the following sub-rule shall be substituted, namely: —

“(3) In case of a Schedule II coal mine or a coal mine under production whose vesting order or allotment order has been
terminated, if so directed by the designated custodian, the prior allottee shall hold the relevant coal mine in trust for the
designated custodian until the designated custodian assumes possession of the relevant coal mine.”.

 17. In the principal rules, in rule 30, after sub-rule (1), the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely:—

“(LA) The powers conferred to a designated custodian under sub-rule (1) may also, mutatis mutandis, be
exercised by designated custodian in respect of any mine under production whose vesting order or allotment
order has been terminated.”

 [F. No. CBA2-13011/1/2020-CBA2]
RAJESH KUMAR SINHA, Jt. Secy.

 Note:- The principal rules were published in the Gazette of India, Part Il, Section 3, Sub-section (i) vide number G.S.R.
883(E), dated the 11th December, 2014 and lastly amended vide number 8.0. 782(E) , dated the 18th March, 2015

Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054. © ALOK KUMAR Biuitsysonesby Hocruman.
 47
283176/2021/P&S-II

ref a. A-ua- 33004/99 REGD. NO. D. L.-33004/99

Wea sa

Cnt

Che Gazette of India

aloft. -S1.Ve.-31.-29052020-219659
CG-DL-E-29052020-219659

HATATLT
EXTRAORDINARY
art [l—e@vs 3—sY-aus (i)
PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (i)

srferare & sear fart
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

a. 255] ae faeeht, qwaTe, TE 29, 2020/SA8S 8, 1942
No. 255] NEW DELHI, FRIDAY, MAY 29, 2020/JYAISTHA 8, 1942
rare HATA

ae feeeft, 29 HE, 2020

ararfa. 332(4)—oreu are are (fare sede) Getta fara, 2020 ar are ara (fag
sree) fra, 2014 FH atte Hea 2% fre wearer & res See afer FT ards feo ort Ft area a
ate fea & afta area aa, Bre area fers areata ate Gara, ale ars St, ATs EU aTAHTA. a
249 (a), aTera 13 are, 2020 WIT HUTT, ATT-I, GS-3, SI-Ss-(i) F wef Pear WaT AT;

A TAT SF TTT aATATTT site Fearrat Te ferare Pea Tar B;

At: Ua, Heel THe HIATT rt (fasra Seta) aterfray 2015 (2015 wr 11) Ft aver 31 Ft Sa-
amet (1) Tat (2) ET Veet afeat HT TART Hed SU Baa ara (fara Srater) rar, 2014 H site setters
aca ® foro fraferfec faaa aardt 2:-

1. afered are atte we. (1) St Prat ar aera aH eT GTA (Fer Sree) Hatters Fars 2020 21
(2) Fe MTT HF Ser THe AT TTS aT TACT SAT
2. arrears (faere Sota) Fert 2014 F (sas Tae Wer PAH HET TWAT S):—

2317 GI/2020 qd)
283176/2021/P&S-II
2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part II—SEc. 3(i)]

(i) verraat ® feare qe frat F oa are Z, atoat ate seat “APre Ura (FAT Seas) seaTeer 2014
(2014 ar Hearest 5)’ carat Te ATEHT Us sth HITE Ura (fara Sate) afafaaA 2015 (2015 wT 11)’
 BSH AT see TE ATT: sz

(ii) Reve 2 oa-frarm (1) & ae (a) & fare ae Raat A we aa &, ‘eae greg ea ‘aaa
TET STU
3. qa faa, faa 2, o7-faa (1) Fy,
(i) @vs (#),% carat We Perferfad avs ta TT, gate —
‘(®) “afatran’) a aren ara (ere sree) afar 2015 (2015 ar 11) afr z;

(mr) “afer sgem” ar eet adh Shr at BrreT ara (aera Tae) afer 2015 (2015 aT 11)
 AT art 3 At Sa-arer (1) & avs (mH) F Aer fear Tar z;

(Fa) “Aaa Peet cake & arrest A ase Peet ser aah a ad Se TT Weret IST ATA BT
a

(i) TA sae at ae Hea ST; aera
(ii) TA aR arr fara @ aera

(iii) SA aR are Para & a yearet aaa area wT a Oa oats at fae wear a;
aay

(iv) ta ote Ft wa dag Hott ST;

ray — sa avs h Wa & fer dag aod a at ad sem TT act afafaa
2013 (2013 #T 18) Ft arr 2 At St-aret (6) F aaah TAT z;

(1) “arden” A artes atx tart ws ara fate afar 3;
(FA) “aden” A ares afatiaa Ft arr 5 F fee sraer stat F aren A alae 3;
(ii) avs (7)  SaTq Peafefed avs steearite Fee are, eat —

(aa) “rear” & arteries Ft are 4 elt repeat | rarer arat Ft oferet atett are artis
franft ahr 2;

(Ta) “areftarar’ ar afore aot sera fara & are S TT Bre ara Ft Ararat FH are eT’;
(iii) avs (4) Weare Preafefad avs steearhte Peo aret, eat —

‘(aa) “atereca ftee” a afere & ot Brad eta aeare are Pet arrer ara ® fru fae tet

azar sfeercat & rat serera Ht efter & area & arated Pear sre;

(aa) “HTT TAA” F ahs Is FT Aes Sas argh Hare Pert ate ora BH aqare Braet FT

arate ft BAT Seas HET TST HTT HoT ateray FATA site Sra FH aha HA F;

(at) “feta” F arfernter freerst Ft frags aera setert feta ar atfereare aterat Peet eafee arer
fear war Atfeere Prote srerar sahara areca area TTA Were AAT TTT ST A HLT HLA TAT

48
49

283176/2021/P&S-Il
[AMT I—ave 3(i)] Ae HT UAT: TATA 3

TAT NAT ATT AAT WaeTT ATT SMT AAT MALATE HUT AAT AAS LIT AMAT BLES AKT
fifa afta ent’;

(iv) ave (4) F ores Frat & area & aries apes | re ares *& Fru Sekt Aare are Pathe yer’
great & carat oe read Ata & ares & aries aah | are ara & feu eg aca are Pata
Hea ara Tay TAT SATTATT, ;

(v) aus (a), & Sard eateries avs ate: cari feo set, eat —

(aa) “ora Arar’ & afsra 2 ott Ata cals a & set areftaran Ft ra Wes Farle aft
saa wear aafers errr it faar sear zara face erat a are ETT;

(Fa) “ATS STA F a S at TT HoT FS TT Peet aes Hoh A Haag Sr”
(aT) ‘aareora fase wart aaa” F ass J TT Va ara FZ A acer AT ae Wt Fh
 fora eda aa art aria area Ustet arr ofa Pear wa at aie
(i) aeet FT aac Three & Sate FH few ara APA ar are HT Ta Sat AT ST
Faere watrsrt areata & fore Tet ea aS Tart HOTT;

(ii) Tey Beg Stra sath aT ardet HOTT site Sea Soft Ahleq Bre sat HT GAA,
faeare car area arferare FATT VATS ATT Wael AT VATA HUTT;

(wa) “Tage was ATT HT Wares” & are ST Wa ara aS ra acer A raz Ta
fora Setter ears are afaea steer aftencor aver orrftrer ear war et sire

(i) Are FT Was Wisse & Footed & fare Shoe & foro where art Harare ae aver AT
Wat WSS TTT HLA aT HT sta fet Far aT;

(ii) teat AT Tae Tse Fh Prorat * fore ae areata aT aaa ares area Feet
wa HTT BHT PCa aa;

(iii) Tare ere gates atest aa aferetet Ger arare UT AKNT AT TAT TSS
Frater & fore aragae aPh ar aren; catorar faere water aret at arated after array
art & art Pare Wares ST A APT HAT!

 (vi) @e (a) ar ae Peat ST;

(vii) TA WHIe SS (Ht) ATT ara, Prater fad as ata: cafe few ot, arafa:-
(orn) “orien” F are oft pot ar are ar oafe frara, are free at ar et, ofr ert;
(ara) “aferatita arated’ fram 11 so-faaa (8) Ft fafee arafedt a afr 2;
(arr) “aferatita areftarar” fers 10  oa-fere (9) F fee atefrarar & afer 2;

(ra) “Read frat & arfsrre & ait frat Ft sae cafes a eat aefterar area: SAI HET a
ae areft array arafera errr at Uelt erat a arta err Aree fafa eearast F fatafee fear war
a:
283176/2021/P&S-II
4

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(viii) @S (<) H, erect ate stat “area wa F arafed ae | etre ara & ferw Akt aeare are faa
Weg” ed ate othe H ta Oe “arden wT A aT Rat Ata & we Ft ares ape | Ararat ara & few
apatr aeare are Prati yes ar wera” ser TS TTT;

(ix) @S (S) # ears oe Pafefed ae cS TTT, sate:-
“(s) wat arated?’ & aire @ at wa ara fafee anet areftaran ate at arated Z;

(S) “anet arafed? & afsra & reat frre 11 & oo-faaa (9) F fade ardfect & aarfeafe ar
aft ar Fava, & afro, 2 Bra frre 12 agar F Hae ara ares Ft TE Z;

(Sa) “ane areftarar’ a afar & at faa 10 % sa-faaa (10) F fAfee areftarar 2;’:

(x) @S (1) & weave, Frafafea ee ata: carfta Prat sre, erata:-

(a) “aver Fam faa cheat’ & afere & ot aft Fecal sree ater Trent ar site afer
zat wrarhrét ox avait 3960 Aa are (Aa) At earhta aaa ar saa afew aT Oat ser ara
frat Fata aca are fafafee fear war a, areft faeqa chara & erm, free faa afar,
2003 (2003 #1 36) #t earet 63 & dad alsa Acar are afar acer Ar fae wasrarat
fast atten & foro areft Ft areeoff wfhar frat daeft feor-fget & asa ett aca Ft

vee & atu oe i 7e thee ara ohteratcrs ate aR we a Sarat UST aT ae Uae A
azar are fast aate ar were feat sat &; aire

4. 7a frat & fare 7 FH, ofa (2), SS (7) F, “ares Il Brera ara” great are ateat Bh ears I “aT
Il TAT STAT Ae SeaTSA FITS GA FH ATA F ears seer aT alder areer Bara Hea Ft atte a”
et AT seh TA TTT

5. yer fraat & fore 8 A, sa-faa (2) F-

(i) arcs art a, “feraferfera & ater A great & carat oe “Praferfes Pies aed eu” seg TA TTT;
(ii) SS (@) ar ae ea ST;

(iii) Fa THTR aS (GB) ATT aVaTa, Praferfad ata: wari Paw sey, aata:-

“(@ ah) BATT art aed WaT H, Req Braet At cat Goa, ar Braet AT fat ow A aia at
@, afta SI

ToS HUT: - Sat SSH WATT Bh rw, cat aa F et oft Pafee ae soa oo fee ae So
a Peet oft aattorst Fare ar orf Pear Sr aewaT 21”;

(iv) @S (7) H, “Ararat ar arated Hear” great Bh ea Ue “Ita tart at Rad tart we ales area
ar frat ec” sree TA TAT

6. Fat Fraat & Fears 10 F,-
(i) Ta-Fraa (3) F, -
(®) es () F eaTA Oe Praferhaa ae Ta TNT, aaa:

50
283176/2021/P&S-II

[art Il—ave 3(i)] AIT BT USAT» AATATT 5
“(h) BIA GT aden Seem A, Peg Braet At cast Gra, ar Arar Ht ahh owe St Ae
wal @, tte a1";

(@) Gs (7) Fears Oe Pafafad ae TS TUT, aaia:-

“(T) arate Ata 4 daa Patera o oat F Hicad ftert are Harare Yes at Rast
Arart  araet A gaa stra, Rad start & are A fast gear, cera ard, After
aratiora eer Ft whan ate area aa ferer Gara orfaret 2;”;

(7) @e (S.) FH eITA Oe Praferfaa ae car ao, aata:-

“(s.) frre 13 & sa-faam (5) Ft fafafee ane atefterar & ara Peo art art veafat
rca TST”;

(ii) a-Fraa (4) F: -

(*) @z (@) F, Sa-as (@) & Gare Patera so-as ata: earita Paw sew, aata:-
“aq) Fadia arett aor area so-so at az F faerie fear or aera Z, frees Fett aa
are aati FAST ATT”;
(@) ae (7) S-aS (iil) F, “TAA, TRA Sores Her” seat Bh fore “ae TAT BH wT areft
ofasia” steq te SITET;
(T) SS (7) wr aT Fa STOTT;
(iii) Sa-Feevat (4) & Tear, Praferfed so-fraa stearite feu ores, aata:-

“(4) TA areal F Tet Berea ara AY tert arferfera FY errer (4) At Sa-arer (3) tea Ft TE AT
ate Pret poet at arret are (fase rae) setter fara, 2020 & area & Gee aH aTefteraT
arte Pear war et, ca Wa at Seftarar AT a HTT AAT FH AATT BTA ITA HLA AY TATA
te Het areftarar ar arden art ST Kt aT St Star Ft sragarHa sare Te arate ST
ame at ath”
(4a) arrer art (Fasra Sra) Setters ers, 2020 % area arena Frees At ara Fh vara
arate erat ara Ft treat & araet A, wet Breer Aart are ateftaray ae areftaray aT
STAT @, Ta Ua Ale SAT FH GATT HAT WTA HET AAT TTT BT Sa Tae Te HA PAT ST
waar & aT oft fafaar cera F aaa fee orferars are fatafee frat war at
(471) a Aree F wet cas AT aa & vast A Fraet ara Ataret ® few APRs Ft oct Z, aa
aa srart Rater FY erat, fare fore ateftaran ateft oor tar Z, Brae settee Ft ers SA
aqara & ent sit ffaar aecarast F fatafee fear war en”;
(iv) st-feere (5) &, “ar erat sit ret ott ar sett were ost a tae oat a ardfed Pear at evar
@ reat EIT Ue “AT HTT Seat aT Sah Pett ot sao, recht Peet poet ar seach gare poet aT
aren adh ar daar aT aye HIT aT SaHt erry oT Hr Arras at or cent S, sete H Peet ter
ATAavS Oe aaa STAT” ores TA TTT;

51
283176/2021/P&S-II
6

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(v) sa-fra (9) F, "aTafafatee sofeenrh aarfte aor" oreat & carat az, “arafatafee orferert Arar
ahora & arare oe aaa areftaren At aro BUT ate aaTita ea” ahaa ear seat

7. oat Fraat & faa 11 F—

(i) a-frarm (2) F, “Peet acer aot at cee & fore at arated erat ar arr & sere, ar erat, Ft
afc tear fafifee aon" sreat cart ae" Peet aot ar fra at sath aerae ar atfest Fost at
aeanht aofat ar age Ft aahat ar sae seat ar arated feu ot wat are BTA Scat AT Sa
Pet caters & are Ft Peet er Gearfiex F ararx 9 arat aT Braet ere AT aferpea Tear at wee Aha
fafatafts ax aad 2" car se;

(ii) So-Fere (3) A" WH adet seaTaST dae HOT AT AST TEATAIT" Meal A eITT UT “ade TAT
fore Ue TETAS GATE HOTT, AAT AST SEAT" Mer TS ATTA;
(iii) T4-Fezat (4) F, -
(% ) ae ()   ferohrea ae car are, Fata: -
"“(n) afea HAA GTA Bh alder HT Sees, APs Brae Ft eat aa ar Braet AY faht aH aia at
a"
(@) Sz (7) H, greg "Tra FT ora" Tear, aes "ates & fers aaa Her AT oa,” ate eaTltt
frat sre;
(7) Gs (7) F Tare Pafefad wae sicearite Pear sre, arate: -
“aed Haat are rast aaa arora Gare set AT TE B, TTA orferarsl arse sate F artet
ae sa ae Ft art & fore ara gaat & ara arefera aes PAA Pee ae aa z; ae THT ATT AT
frat 13 & oa-fiae (5) Ff fafafee aqareatice aaa & sftare aretera Ftra ar Ta HET
fora saat FH UH aT ST A eH ory veda Het anf, der fe arafatafee orfaart art
fafafatés far ot aera 21”

(4) @e (4) & fora Praferfad Gs car are, sata: -
"“(a) fre 13 & so-fae (5) Ft afafee Peo re aq eet ara feat & arr few at art weaTfat
UTE BT AAT":
(iv) s4-FraH (6) F, -
(#) BS (4) HT ATT ITT;
(a) ae (B) F, -
(i) arcie art 4, "Reet ot fattite cca srart & foro" erect & fora, "wat Ft ara & few"
great aT wfaeatite Pear STAT;
(ii) Sa-ae (iil) F "fae tease" seat Hearst UE “aT wT A fafafee" eee ca
SIGE
(v) 34-Ferere (8) 2 caret oe Patera oo-fam car sua, rata:

52
283176/2021/P&S-II

[ATT [ave 3(i)] AT BT UT: TATA 7

"(8) aTafafes srfaardt ardea via & afore arare ae ate arafeat Ft atoor Sor aie aT
arafeat  aaret a aater HT acne BT rod Pererheet ASTI"
(vi) Sa-frere (10) F dtr aeare At aot ar fra AY aq | Brrear ara" otee site oth EIT WT
Fraferfec car arom, sat:
“APA | BTA aT, —
(i) wae aeearet Hot at Fare rear cathe ar waers ats ae ITA S, aT
(i) Eom & ears oe oft ere are (steer FT aaz wists Alea) & avare ae afataotier At art areft
fers forge oRattrar Ht preret ST Be carat Te RTT eM aT FATA:

ae tftp & cara oe often ate (areer Aa atae wise aed)  arare ae aatS At TAT
aret fetes free afatorat Ft pret Seat ears oe wee ar eT ar Fre er STE sats
aden  araet F ata aeare them hearst oe afer a cea fee Hares, ATT ACHE aT
aati tet acardt aot ar erst ar Oa ere sats Bh ears Ue decd fated: arden Ta aT
aot ate acaeard fee afar aaa afahote Reo ort oe sffea ardet avast frat 13
H faftee ofan & arpare srt rar STE
(vii) So-Frert 10 aearq Prafetad so-fae ate: carta fra ser, arate: -

“(11) aerrer AY cat AT aoe vars A rrr AT GTA arated ATA A eT UH eT aT
Tad aa aaa THe aa TA GAT @, TT WS Brae Feast FH qa F Slr wa Her} fear
wa ane ardteat Ft seared, arafafes orfeeart art area eearasr F fafatee few we aac 4x
HH Sl THA el”
8. yer frat Ft fears 12 & ear oz, Praferfaa car area stata:
12. faga afaersit ® fare thts arent ofteratcrn atett & arenx at arent — (1) Raat 8, 9 ar 11
safes fret ara ate eu sft, hate aca afearftae Ft arr 5 Sa-aret (1) Sadat apa ae |
 At Peet oft arrer area ar fee Fares Farce ATT are WA arent & fore arqerhra Peet ot poet ar

arated ae aadt & Bre te acer art shea aaeft we Paes ws erat oe acer Fo fae WRatsaTsit
ated then q witeratcren atett  arare oe fee ohare sare Ft TE ST

(2) ektr were at | Frazer erat At att afer ra ex aaah or sa fare 2 ded ade Aq Tree
anft car 0a arden & fru Fae wa ord off faPafte ax aah”

9. Her fart & frre 13 &, -

(i) Sa-Fram (1) Farah" greg ea Oe "HT TAT" Ses TA TTA;

(ii) sa-Fraa (3) H, avs (wm) "oT" tes & fore "whee" Mes AT TST STOTT;

(iii) T4-Fezat (4) F, -
(®) arcitre ant A "aret ateftarat at areata" great 2 cara a, “aot ardfedi" erez Ta
SIGE

53
283176/2021/P&S-II
8

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(@) Gs (ii) F, "wa aH ae Fale aa are fafafee aqaried ara ater F fates Ft ws
avedt ace fratite aaa ve weadt 3" eat cara oz, "sa-faaa (5) Ft fahtee wae F
Fe Te AGATR" er TI STU;

(7) Gz (iii) & Tae Prafefed seg ata-earhte Peart sre start: -

“ae Pret acardt aot ar fre ar then & foro ofterelf atett  arare ae arated Ft ry

are feras faeqea Thats (aeet FT ora sisrre Aaa) F Braet Sra & fore Fas 11

 a-frere (10) deat arated Pu ort Ft fafa A fee Fares, dtr aca ares at

feu we feor-freet & aqare ofteref ateft & arare ae otae wre aT ats HA Fh ATS

ae aad At are Saree Storer Ths eearet are Feared tH TET vara Ft Strutt”
(iv) s7-frere (5) & wara, Prefered so-faa ataearite feat area, arate: -

"(5%) Sa-faaa (5) F fafafee wae & Prater we erat at Bre sate & fore aaa oe Ft tera site ora F
wa aa fstaat wa oat & are omer Fear set fares kts Acar aT asa aa aft Rarea fas,
1960 dad SIA Arad & site afer faa fam, 2004 & fara 9 & daa ara Gras Ft aaa Br
a, sT-frare (2) # fafa fee Hae BATA AT STATI

(5a) afer farm fret, 2004 fara 9 aed ara Glas Ft aqahe Ba oe ae arafedt, Gat AAT
Tae HUTS HT Seared affera aHesd fore so- fre (4) Tea els Tea AT Sas are At TE HrI-
frooret de aredt At ole  aaes TST aH Tet A eH far ord site aaRaddia ari-faorred tar
aredt at:

Wed Ader eR (AeeT AAT Wat Wsree Alea) fore whaeref set HF ara ae aT ay are
wafers free Rats F arret sear Se Peet areas ett sera fare ar fare 11 oa-fra (10)
atta Par ara @, at fee area Fate ears art art Pew ae feen-feart & aqare where arett
amare oe fae aa ater & ave at arafedt At ace a aera sara Areas F Paes aT
frcores dae aredt Ff sah
(51) sa-fra (4) & stenta dt we faoorad de aret so-faa (5a) aed roared dH TST AA HF are
ayzat oa-fram (5) # fafafee are 2 aaa SIA ars fea ara, saa A TT At veer A, THe aad at
area at at Testh”;

(v) sa-frere (6) F, “site eat fara” sree ® fore ar feet ter aera Ted Gert TS AY te He AT fea F,
greg “site or Frater, after aefRe ft Peter wes orct ar Seca He Wz, Tero aaa, GAT TS aT
yaar aaa site aa oe, Peet ser erga ary art oe Se Parad ar eg wed At feafe 4, waxat we
ferfaa Fat feo srt are erect & fro dia aa AT Ta A ade BT ae HA ® few ae Ra F
asia @, cafe cea sears At faite ae” Gar se”

10. Wa fant & faa 14 F, -

(i) ofitee H, «oF arafect & form” sreat ar etre rar sre;

(ii) = sa Fere (1) FH, “aed arated ar Sa” great aat Stat carat ae, area, er are Pea STAT

54
55

283176/2021/P&S-Il
[AMT I—ave 3(i)] Ae HT UAT: TATA 9

11. Her frat & fram 15 F, -
(®) oft Fad arafedt & aera area operat ar ar” great * ears Oe, "TPRR” See TET STOTT;
(a) -sa-fraa (1) &, -

(i) “aR ate are aaa A Sera aT” areal, SAT carat Oe are , Beara, “ATA Pee orferart  arer
weet arafedt arr sar feu we feat” ster TA TTT

(ji) Gs (@) *oe9r, Pafafad ade aacearite Pear sre sat
“(T) Tl At Hare ara F Aaa H TS arafect Ht ea aN’;
12. qa frat & faa 17 Fea Wy, Pafefed ae car oe, aaa:

“47. Oa: Ate a Ga: ardent - fe aq At Peet rarer ara ar ares Fare 10, 11 atzaT 12 &
aqare set Pear Sra S aT ee at Peet Stare ara SB aafera Peach areer ar arden araar at Peet ff
are & aaa Het fear sar , aarfeata St, ar arahatee wrferers ar fave 10 & aaa ararer frat eer
aaa fre 11 at fare 12 aed FT Ge HT Alder Hes HT afar ST aerd WS aresr aT AAT
aeart ae 8 dea STAT Hea Sth AAT”

13. yer frat & faa 19 F, -

(i) oa-ferra (1) Har uae rer ferent ares” great wT ATT FAT STOTT;

(ii) = sa- Frere (2) F, Ge (7) Hae, Prafafec ae at sta: erfte Pear ore, aata:-
“(a) Terral & Brrer ferent ar eater, ale aE B,”;

(iii) = so-FRere (2) & ware, Praferfed ofan ata: earite Pear orem, sata:

“(2m) aaat HT A Teer, Tett Ht ae afafera Hea srr Pe ash cerare ATHATaTe HITT UTA 7h
ardedt aera Bret Fear Sa re sera HA aTaT He HA BH Of ara ast SOT PH
HUT AT SATA HT ATA SI’;

(iv) 9 sa-Frera (4) agar, Prefered so-Paa aecearite feo set; seater:

“(4) Fatt AH ATT AqHad Ba BAT He Mt od we aanft rah Tea WH Here AT seca BH few

mereret at are PRAT STOTT

(4a) Ta were aT Sacra *& forrest Fh aTare Uz, BTA Gra F GT Taerst HA AT HITT feast TT

BAA WTS BA ATA Terre Cah Hae Eras aT Hae Pept A Aafast Saari Ar ASaq HOM’;

(v) - sa-feera (5)  agara, Prefered so-faae ay atocearite Pear sea, aata:-

“(6) arafedt fre sees (aver FT Tae Tree Aiea) * ferw witch ate avare ae ath we aah
fage wRatsrear Farrer & sea eq faa 11 safer (10) azat fre 12 % ded ae are at
arated Prat wat 2, Ta sacra aT eae A orf SA HT Ts AST SET”

14. - yor Frat & fra 20 F, -

283176/2021/P&S-II
10

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(i) sa-frva (1) A, “avavea ® fore sere Hoel” great BH carat ae “saree Fre are at ar sath wera
ert” seq TA STU;
(ii) = sa- Fra (3) agar, Prafefad so-fae at stoeafte Pear sre, stata:

“(4) arafedt Bre geen (aeet FT oat Tse afeat) & fore often are  arare oe aT TE
aafea fee oR F arret & saat Sq Pas 11 o-Ps (10) azar frre 12 & aed
are art Bl arated Pear war S, WA Sears aT Here F ore Slr aT ITs aT SPT”

15. yer frat & fam 26 F, -

(#) sa-Frae (1) 4,
(i) “apa” grea & fore, “SAM” seq TAT STAT;
(ii) “rqeet-l Ft sree ara” stect site ate ears az, “agai At strat art ar Peet
serrate arrear are Bree Part areer serar atest aresr AT AAA He Far WaT z,” eat site
FH TS TUT,

(@) sa Frre (2) F, “are” greg site tp ar are Pra STOTT;

(7) - safer (4) F, Ge (@) FF, “ore” ores ate ate er at aT TTT

16. Wet frat & fa 27 2 Paes (3) ears Oe Paferfee o-Ps car are, stata:

“(3) aes ll errear |@ra aT Seareace Bre ares rear Part areer AT araea Tee TATa He Fear Tar

@, are &, aaa afseera arr war freer fear sar 2 a, Wa a om TT aes Safar Ble UTA
% HoT Hl ATA Tel aT S da eH Atafedt aria afsreerH AT fret A aafera Brae ara aT afta HT”

17. aa frat & fram 30 4, sofas (1) & oeara, Prater so-fae sta: earite fear oreo,
wate

“(a) afta afseern ar so-faa (1) & atta veo ofeeat ar wart oft ait afters art,

rntra Rada aed, sores Peat oft sa ara & sate A Pear ore rear fare areer aera
ardent areet aaa He SAT TAT SI”

 [roa aftefte2-1301 1/1/2020-4Fr4172]

ute pare ferret, Aa APT

feoquy: Wer Frere area arr. fF.883(a) aretha 11 feetax, 2014 art Aiea UIT, ATT-II, GS-3, TGS
(i) # warfere few ae site TAT. 782 (A), Ta 18 ATS, 2015 arer sifam are aenfera feat TAT ATI

56
283176/2021/P&S-II

[ATT [ave 3(i)] AT BT UT: TATA 11

MINISTRY OF COAL
NOTIFICATION
New Delhi, the 29th May, 2020

G.S.R. 332(E). — WHEREAS, the draft Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Amendment Rules, 2020 proposing
to amend the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014 were published in in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3,
Sub-section (i) vide number G.S.R. 249 (E), dated the 13" April, 2020, inviting objections and suggestions, if any, to the
Government of India, Ministry of Coal within thirty days from the date on which the said notification was made
available to the public;

AND WHEREAS objections and suggestions received from the public have been considered;

NOW, therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 31 of the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of 2015), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules further to amend the Coal
Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014, namely:—

1. Short title and commencement. — (1) These rules may be called the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Amendment
Rules, 2020.

 (2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
 2. In the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014 (hereinafter referred to as the principal rules):—

(i) throughout the principal rules wherever they occur, except in the preamble, for the words, brackets and figures, “Coal
Mines (Special Provisions) Ordinance, 2014 (Ord. 5 of 2014)”, the words, brackets and figures “Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of 2015) shall be substituted; and

(ii) throughout the principal rules wherever they occur, except in clause (j) of sub-rule (1) of rule 2, for the word,
“Ordinance”, the word “Act” shall be substituted.

 3. In the principal rules, rule 2, sub-rule (1),
(i) for clause (a), the following clauses shall be substituted, namely: —
“(a) “Act” means the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of 2015);

(aa) “additional levy” has the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (a) of sub-section (1) section 3 of the
Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of 2015);

(ab) “affiliate” with respect to any pe rson shall mean any other person who, directly or indirectly: —
(i) controls such person; or
(ii) is controlled by such person; or
(iii) is controlled by the same person who, directly or indirectly, controls such person; or
(iv) is an associate company of such person.

 Explanation— For the purpose of this clause "associate company" shall have the same meaning as
assigned to it in sub-section (6) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013);

(ac) “allocation” means allotment and auction referred together;
(ad) “allotment” means allotment of coal blocks referred to in section 5 of the Act;’;
(ii) after clause (c), the following clauses shall be inserted, namely:—

“(ca) “auction” means the public auction by competitive bidding of Schedule I coal mines under section 4 of the
Act;

(cb) “bidder” means a company or corporation which participate in auction of coal mine;’;
(ili) after clause (d), the following clauses shall be inserted, namely:—

“(da) “ceiling price” means a price or percentage fixed by the Central Government for a coal mine which is to
be allocated by way of reverse auction;

(db) “coal linkage” means a contract entered between coal producing Government company or corporation and
consumer for supply of coal in accordance with the terms and conditions of the relevant fuel supply agreement;

(de) “control” shall include the right to appoint majority of the directors or to control the management or policy
decisions exercisable by a person or persons acting individually or in concert, directly or indirectly, including

57
283176/2021/P&S-II

12 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part II—SEc. 3(i)]

by virtue of their shareholding or management rights or shareholders agreements or voting agreements or in
any other manner;’;

(iv) in clause (f), for the words “the price fixed by the Central Government for a Schedule I coal mine allocated by way
of auction”, the words “a price or percentage fixed by the Central Government for a Schedule I coal mine allocated by
way of forward auction” shall be substituted;

(v) after clause (f), the following clauses shall be inserted, namely: —

“(fa) “forward auction” means the method of auction where the bidders shall be required to successively quote
the bid higher than the floor price, subject to such conditions as may be specified in the tender document;

(fb) “group company” means a company which is an affiliate of another company;”

(fc) “infrastructure special purpose vehicle” means an entity incorporated by the nodal agency designated by
the Central Government for the purposes of Ultra Mega Power Projects and shall —

(i) hold the land required for the construction of the Ultra Mega Power Project and grant the said land
under lease or licence to the operating special purpose vehicle;

(ii) hold the allocation of the domestic captive coal block and grant the mining, development and
operation rights of the said domestic captive coal block to the operating special purpose vehicle;

(fd) “operating special purpose vehicle” means an entity incorporated by the nodal agency designated by the
Central Government for the purpose of an Ultra Mega Power Project and shall —

(i) be transferred to the awardee of an Ultra Mega Power Project on the basis of competitive bids for
tariff for the execution of the Ultra Mega Power Projects;

(ii) execute the power purchase agreement with the distribution licensees for execution of the Ultra
Mega Power Project;

(iii) hold the land required for the construction of the Ultra Mega Power Project on lease basis
acquired in the name of infrastructure special purpose vehicle; act as a mine development operator of
the captive coal mine allocated to the infrastructure special purpose vehicle;’;

(vi) clause (j) shall be omitted;

(vii) after clause (j) so omitted, the following clauses shall be inserted, namely:—
“(ja) “person” shall include any company or association or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not;
(jb) “preferred allottee” means the allottee as referred to in sub-rule (8) of rule 11;
(jc) “preferred bidder” means the bidder as referred to in sub-rule (9) of rule 10;

(jd) “reverse auction” means the method of auction where the bidders shall be required to successively quote
the bid lower than the ceiling price, subject to such conditions as may be specified in the tender document;’;

(viii) in clause (k), for the words and figure “the price fixed by the Central Government for a Schedule I coal mine
allocated by way of allotment”, the words and figure “a price or percentage fixed by the Central Government for a
Schedule I coal mine allocated by way of allotment or by way of reverse auction” shall be substituted;

(ix) for clause (m), the following clauses shall be substituted, namely:—
“(m) “successful allocatee” means the successful bidder and successful allottee referred together;

(ma) “successful allottee’” means the allottee as referred to in sub-rule (9) of rule 11 or a company, or as the
case may be, corporation to whom coal mine has been allotted in pursuance of rule 12;

(mb) “successful bidder” means the bidder as referred to in sub-rule (10) of rule 10;’;
(x) after clause (0), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:—

“(p) “Ultra Mega Power Project” shall mean a power project based on supercritical coal thermal technology or
more efficient technology, with installed capacity of 3960 Mega Watt (MW) or above or such other capacity as
may be specified by the Central Government, from which power procurement is tied up by procurers in more
than one State or Union territory, through tariff based competitive bidding initiated through a Central
Government initiative under the Guidelines for Determination of Tariff Through Transparent Process of
Bidding for Procurement of Power from Ultra Mega Power Projects notified by Central Government under
section 63 of the Electricity Act, 2003 (36 of 2003)’.

 58
283176/2021/P&S-II

[art II—ave 3(i)] ATCT HT UAT : TATA 13

4. In the principal rules, in rule 7, in sub-rule (2), in clause (p), for the words and figures, “Schedule II coal mine;”, the
words and figures, “Schedule II coal mine and on the date of termination of vesting order or allotment order in case of a
coal mine under production;” shall be substituted.

 5. In the principal rules, in rule 8, in sub-rule (2),—

(i) in the opening portion, for the words “regarding the following”, the words “specifying the following” shall be
substituted;

(ii) clause (b) shall be omitted.;

(iii) after clause (b) so omitted, the following shall be inserted, namely:—

“(ba) the purpose of allocation of the coal mine including, but not limited to, own consumption of coal, or for
sale of coal.

 Explanation— For the purposes of this clause, own consumption may include consumption of coal in any
specified end use or in any combination of specified end uses.”;

(iv) in clause (c), for the words “conducting auction or allotment”, the words “conducting allotment or conducting
auction including by way of forward auction or reverse auction” shall be substituted.

 6. In the principal rules, in rule 10,—
(i) in sub-rule (3),—
(a) for clause (a), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—

“(a) the purpose of allocation of the coal mine including, but not limited to, own consumption of coal,
or for sale of coal; ”;

(b) for clause (c), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—

“(c) the terms and conditions associated with the public auction, including the floor price in case of
forward auction or the ceiling price in case of reverse auction, reserve price in case of reverse auction,
eligibility conditions, the process of conduct of auction and other related information;”;

(c) for clause (e), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—

“(e) specimen of agreement proposed to be entered into with the successful bidder as specified in sub-
tule (5) of rule 13.”;

(ii) in sub-rule (4),—
(a) in clause (b), after sub-clause (B), the following sub-clause shall be inserted, namely:—

“(C) The financial bid stage may be divided into such sub-stages or rounds as may be deemed expedient by
the Central Government.”;

(b) in sub-clause (iii) of clause (c), for the words “provide security, guarantee.”, the words “bid security in the
form of bank guarantee.” shall be substituted;

(c) clause (d) shall be omitted;
(iii) after sub-rule (4), the following sub-rules shall be inserted, namely:—

“(4A) In cases where auction of a coal mine has been conducted under sub-section (3) of section (4) of the Act
and a company has been declared successful bidder before the commencement of the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Amendment Rules, 2020, then the entitlement of such successful bidder to receive coal pursuant to
such coal linkage shall stand proportionately reduced on the basis of the requirement of coal being met from the
mine allocated to such successful bidder.

 (4B) In cases of auction of coal mine for the purpose of own consumption of coal conducted after the
commencement of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Amendment Rules, 2020 where a bidder having a coal
linkage becomes the successful bidder, then the entitlement to receive coal pursuant to such coal linkage may
be reduced on such basis as may be specified by the nominated authority in the tender document.

 (4C) In case the coal mine is specified for auction for the purpose of own consumption, then the capacity of the
end use project for which a bidder is bidding shall be in such proportion to the capacity of coal block as may be
specified in the tender document.”;

(iv) in sub-rule (5), for the words “or both that may be allocated to a company or its subsidiary or associate companies”,
the words “or a limit based on any other parameter regarding production of coal or any combination thereof that may be

59
283176/2021/P&S-II

14 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part II—SEc. 3(i)]

auctioned to a company or corporation or its subsidiary or holding company or associate companies or group companies
or its affiliate” shall be substituted;

(v) in sub-rule (9), for the words “the nominated authority shall forward”, the words “the nominated authority shall
declare the preferred bidder on the basis of the result of auction and shall forward” shall be substituted.

 7. In the principal rules, in rule 11—

(i) in sub-rule (2) for the words “shall specify the maximum number of mines or coal reserves or both that may be
allotted to a Government company or corporation of a State”, the words “may specify the maximum number of mines or
coal reserves or a limit based on any other parameter regarding production of coal or any combination thereof that may
be allotted to a company or corporation or its subsidiary or holding company or associate companies or group companies
or its affiliate” shall be substituted;

(ii) in sub-rule (3), for the words “shall prepare an allotment document that is, the allotment document”, the words “shall
prepare a document for the allotment process, that is, the allotment document” shall be substituted;

(iii) in sub-rule (4),—
(a) for clause (a), the following clause shall be substituted, namely: —

“(a) the purpose of allotment of the coal mine including, but not limited to, own consumption of coal
or for sale of coal;”;

(b) in clause (c) after the words “eligibility conditions,”, the words “procedure for making application for
allotment,” shall be inserted;

(c) after clause (c), the following proviso shall be inserted, namely: —

“Provided that in ca se the coal mine whose mining plan has not been prepared, the nominated
authority may specify the reserve price after the allotment of coal block and preparation of mining
plan for such mine; and the successful allottee shall furnish an undertaking as a part of the agreement,
as specified in sub-rule (5) of rule 13, to pay the reserve price within the specified time, as may be
specified by the nominated authority.”;

(d) for clause (d), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—

“(d) specimen of agreement proposed to be entered into with the successful allottee as specified in
sub-rule (5) of rule 13.”;

(iv) in sub-rule (6),—
(a) clause (d) shall be omitted;
(b) in clause (g),—

(i) in the opening portion, for the words “towards any specified end use”, the words “for own
consumption” shall be substituted;

(ii) in sub-clause (iii), for the words “the specified end-use”, the words “specified as the purpose” shall be
substituted;

(v) for sub-rule (8), the following sub-rule shall be substituted, namely: —

“(8) The nominated authority shall declare the preferred allottee on the basis of the result of allotment process
and shall forward its recommendations to the Central Government with regard to the selection of the successful
allottee.”;

(vi) in sub-rule (10), for the words and figure “Schedule I coal mine to a Central Government company or corporation.”,
the following shall be substituted, namely:—

“Schedule I coal mine to,—
(i) a Government company or corporation owned, managed or controlled by the Central Government, or

(ii) a Government company or corporation for utilisation of coal in the linked power project to be awarded on
the basis of competitive bid for tariff (including Ultra Mega Power Project):

Provided that in case of allotment of a coal block to a Government company or corporation for
utilisation of coal in the linked power project to be awarded on the basis of competitive bid for tariff (including
Ultra Mega Power Project), the Central Government shall first issue an in-principle allotment letter for such
coal block to such Government company or corporation recommended by the Government of India in the
Ministry of Power before the competitive bidding for tariff and thereafter on successful award of power project,
the final allotment order shall be issued in accordance with the process specified in rule 13.”

60
283176/2021/P&S-II

[ATT [ave 3(i)] AT BT UT: TATA 15

(vii) after sub-rule 10, the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely: —

“(11) In cases of allotment of coal mine for the purpose of own consumption of coal where an applicant having
a coal linkage becomes the successful allottee, then the entitlement of such successful allottee to receive coal
pursuant to such coal linkage may be reduced on such basis as may be specified by the nominated authority in
the allotment document.”.

 8. In the principal rules, for rule 12, the following shall be substituted, namely: —

“12. Allotment on the basis of tariff based competitive bidding for power projects.- (1) Notwithstanding anything
contained in rules 8, 10 or 11, the Central Government may in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (1) of
section 5 of the Act, allot any Schedule I coal mine to any company recommended for such allotment by the
Government of India in the Ministry of power, which has been awarded power project on the basis of competitive bids
for tariff) including Ultra Mega Power Projects), on such terms and conditions as the Central Government may deem
expedient.

 (2) The Central Government may notify a list of such Schedule I coal mines which would be available for allotment
under this rule and may also specify the terms and conditions for such allotment.”.

 9. In the principal rules in rule 13,—

(i) in sub-rule (1), for the word “allottee”, the words “successful allottee” shall be substituted;

(ii) in sub-rule (3), in clause (a), for the word “proceeds”, the word “compensation” shall be substituted;
(iii) in sub-rule (4),—

(a) in the opening portion, for the words “successful bidder or allottee”, the words “successful allocatee” shall
be substituted;

(b) in clause (ii), for the words “till it reaches its peak rated capacity as specified in the approved mine plan as
may be specified by the Central Government”, the words “as provided in the agreement specified in
sub-rule (5)” shall be substituted;

(c) after clause (iii), the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:—

“Provided that in case the allotment is made under sub-rule (10) of rule 11 to a Government company
or corporation for utilisation of coal in the linked power project to be awarded on the basis of
competitive bid for tariff (including Ultra Mega Power Project), the performance Bank Guarantee
shall be provided by the operating special purpose vehicle on behalf of the successful allottee after
award of power project on the basis of competitive bidding in accordance with the guidelines issued
by the Central Government in the Ministry of Power.” ;

(iv) after sub-rule (5), the following sub-rules shall be inserted, namely:—

“(5A) The terms and conditions of the agreement as specified in sub-rule (5) shall be included in terms and
conditions of the mining lease for the coal block along with any other terms and conditions that the Central Government
or the State Government may deem fit under the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960 and upon grant of the mine opening
permission under rule 9 of the Colliery Control Rules, 2004, the agreement as specified in sub-rule (5) shall stand
terminated.

 (5B) Upon grant of the mine opening permission under rule 9 of the Colliery Control Rules, 2004, the successful
allocatee shall provide an unconditional and irrevocable performance bank guarantee in favour of the State Government
for the amount equivalent to the performance bank guarantee submitted by it to the Central Government under sub-rule
(4) for ensuring the production of coal as per the mining plan:

Provided that in case the allotment is made under sub-rule (10) of rule 11 to a Government company or
corporation for utilisation of coal in the linked power project to be awarded on the basis of competitive bid for tariff
(including Ultra Mega Power Project), the performance bank guarantee shall be provided by the operating special
purpose vehicle on behalf of the successful allottee after award of power project on the basis of competitive bidding in
accordance with guidelines issued by the Central Government in the Ministry of Power.

 (5C) The performance bank guarantee submitted under sub-rule (4) shall be returned to the successful allocatee after
submission of performance bank guarantee under sub-rule (5B) or after sixty days of termination of the agreement as
specified in sub-rule (5), whichever is earlier.” ;

(v) in sub-rule (6), for the words “and these rules, or in the event of cancellation of mining lease under any other law in
force”, the words “and these rules, on recommendation of the State Government concerned in the event of breach of
terms and conditions of reconnaissance permit, prospecting license, mining lease or prospecting license-cum-mining

61
283176/2021/P&S-II

16 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

lease, in the event of cancellation of said concessions under any other law in force, or it is expedient in public interest to
terminate the allocation in the opinion of the Central Government, for the reasons to be recorded in writing” shall be
substituted.

 10. In the principal rules, in rule 14,—

(i) in the heading, the words “to the prior allottee” shall be omitted;

(ii) in sub-rule(1), the words “payable to the prior allottee”’, at both the places where they occur, shall be omitted.
 11. In the principal rules, in rule 15,—

(a) in the heading, for the words “proceeds to persons other than the prior allottee”, the word “compensation” shall be
substituted;

(b) in sub-rule (1),—

(i) for the words “proceeds arising out of land and mine infrastructure”, at both the places where they occur, the words
“compensation deposited by the successful allocattee with the nominated authority” shall be substituted;

(ii) after clause (b), the following clause shall be inserted, namely: —
“(c) amount payable to the prior allottee in respect of Schedule I coal mine.”.
 12. In the principal rules, for rule 17, the following rule shall be substituted, namely:—

“17, Re-auction and re-allotment. — In case any Schedule I coal mine is not allocated pursuant to rules 10, 11 or 12, or
the vesting order or allotment order in respect of any Schedule I coal mine is terminated, as the case may be, the
nominated authority shall have the power to re-initiate auction under rule10 or allotment of the coal mine under rule 11
or rule 12, subject to such order as the Central Government may deem fit to issue under rule 8.”.

 13. In the principal rules, in rule 19,—

(i) in sub-rule (1), the words “or a coal linkage holder” shall be omitted;

(ii) in sub-rule (2), after clause (c), the following clause shall be inserted, namely: —
“(d) details of coal linkages of the parties, if any.”;

(ili) after sub-rule (2), the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely:—

“(2A) Before applying, the parties shall ensure that all parties to the arrangement or agreement are otherwise
eligible for the allocation of the coal mine or grant of coal linkage, as the case may be, which are subject matter
of such agreement or arrangement.”;

(iv) after sub-rule (4), the following sub-rules shall be inserted, namely:—

“(4A) The Central Government while granting its approval may impose any condition which shall be binding
on the parties to such agreement or arrangement.

 (4B) Upon execution of such agreement or arrangement, the party carrying out the mining operations in the
coal mine or receiving coal under coal linkage shall bear the liabilities in relation to such coal mine or coal
linkage.” ;

(v) after sub-rule (5), the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely:—

“(6) An allottee to whom the coal mine has been allotted under sub-rule (10) of rule 11 for utilisation of coal in
the linked power project awarded on the basis of competitive bid for tariff (including Ultra Mega Power
Project) or under rule 12, shall not be entitled to enter into such arrangement or agreement.”.

 14. In the principal rules, in rule 20,—

(i) in sub-rule (1), for the words “subsidiary company for common”, the words “holding company or its subsidiary
company for same” shall be substituted;

(ii) after sub-rule (3), the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely: —

“(4) An allottee to whom the coal mine has been allotted under sub-rule (10) of rule 11 for utilisation of coal in
the linked power project awarded on the basis of competitive bid for tariff (including Ultra Mega Power
Project) or under rule 12, shall not be entitled to enter into such arrangement or agreement.”.

 15. In the principal rules, in rule 26,—
(a) in sub-rule (1),—

(i) for the word “may”, the word “shall” shall be substituted;

62
63

283176/2021/P&S-II
[art II—ave 3(i)] ATCT HT UAT : TATA 17

(ii) for the words and figure “Schedule I coal mine”, the words and figure “Schedule II coal mine or a coal
mine under production whose vesting order or allotment order has been terminated,” shall be substituted;

(b) in sub-rule (2), the word and figure “Schedule I” shall be omitted;
(c) in sub-rule (4), in clause (b), the word and figure “Schedule I’”’ shall be omitted.
 16. In the principal rules, in rule 27, for sub-rule (3 ), the following sub-rule shall be substituted, namely: —

“(3) In case of a Schedule II coal mine or a coal mine under production whose vesting order or allotment order has been
terminated, if so directed by the designated custodian, the prior allottee shall hold the relevant coal mine in trust for the
designated custodian until the designated custodian assumes possession of the relevant coal mine.”.

 17. In the principal rules, in rule 30, after sub-rule (1), the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely:—

“(LA) The powers conferred to a designated custodian under sub-rule (1) may also, mutatis mutandis, be
exercised by designated custodian in respect of any mine under production whose vesting order or allotment
order has been terminated.”

 [F. No. CBA2-13011/1/2020-CBA2]
RAJESH KUMAR SINHA, Jt. Secy.

 Note:- The principal rules were published in the Gazette of India, Part Il, Section 3, Sub-section (i) vide number G.S.R.
883(E), dated the 11th December, 2014 and lastly amended vide number 8.0. 782(E) , dated the 18th March, 2015

Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054. © ALOK KUMAR Biuitsysonesby Hocruman.
 Carest Po Slo Ueto-33004/99 REGD. NO. D. L.-33004/99

Hid a Ista

“J a
Che Gazette of Gndia

EXTRAORDINARY
am [ave 3—30-WUE (ii)
PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (ii)
wife & werfgrat
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

a. 2270) aS faccit, Woman, Sadat 16, 2015 /amfyart 24, 1937
No. 2270] NEW DELHI, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2015/ASVINA 24, 1937

 wae Face
ag feel, 16 sraqae, 2015
DLA. 284881) — ART H WTA, SATII, ATT-2, WS — 3, STEVE (ii) F wera, Het Fares ct feria 6
HATS, 2015 H sf S. Hrs. 2704(37 F ev aif oRads & oro, se siege & facia aqese wr Pract yet
OI:-

STAI F, HG. 68 sie aeeaeht wfateat & are Preafead ss GEA sie wfaeat StS orehy, zen :-

WG. alee rl setts | od sect wr aT WoT Tet HEAT
er art aM | seiten Pere
e
“69 | SENT ged chet Us Argh fer. Feg WET
70 q Sel Aga feres areas
71 TSN FERS Uren ferries, INtaret SHIA (Th) fer, SRT | AErersy
gusedta fer.
 72 THEATRI ore faete FTF fetes, cTAIeX deft Grae aRGS
73 TEER T ake Set Fave Saewte ts Chet oral. fer. ORE FT
74 PATER axe arret Pere Sate Us Cher wre, Oia Set
75 TCT Ud faeAT. SATOH Stat Us clot fer., SterPrar Se (Aree) Fer. FERS”

 [wT. G. 13016 /9 /2014— SIG—-II(aTezs_ I) ]

fade area, Wyaa ufea
4453 GI/2015 (1)
2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(ii)]

MINISTRY OF COAL
CORRIGENDUM
New Delhi, the 16th October, 2015

8.0. 2848(E).—In partial modification to the Ministry of Coal’s Notification No. S.O. 2704 (E)
dated 6" October, 2015, published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (ii),
the second paragraph of the said notification may be read as under:-

 In Schedule-lll, after serial number 68 and the entries relating thereto, the following serial numbers
and entries shall be added, namely :-

S.No. | Name of Coal Name of the Prior Allottee State where Coal
Mine/Block Mine/Block Located

“69. Brahampuri Pushp Steel and Mining Ltd. Madhya Pradesh

70. Bundu Rungta Mines Limited Jharkhand

71. Gondkhari Maharashtra Seamless Limited, Dhariwal Maharashtra
Infrastructure (P) Ltd., Kesoram Industries
Ltd.

72. Gondulpara Tenughat Vidyut Nigam Limited, Damodar | Jharkhand
Valley Corporation

23. Jaganathpur A West Bengal Mineral Dev. & Trading West Bengal
Corp. Ltd.

74. Jaganathpur B West Bengal Mineral Development & West Bengal
Trading Corp.

75. Khappa & Extn. Sunflag Iron & Steel Ltd., Dalmia Cement | Maharashtra”
(Bharat) Ltd.

 [F. No. 13016/9/2014-CA-III (Vol.ID]

VIVEK BHARADWAJ, Jt. Secy.

Printed by the Manager, Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi- 110064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054.
 No.CBA2-13011/1/2017-CBA2-Part(1)
Government of India
Ministry of Coal

Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi,
Dated the th February, 2018
a7

ORDER

Subject: Methodology for Auction of Coal Mines/Blocks for sale of coal
under the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 and the Mines and
Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957.

 The undersigned is directed to refer to Rule 8 (3) of the Coal Mines
(Special Provisions) Rules, 2014 read with Section 8 (5) of the Coal Mines
(Special Provisions) Act, 2015 and Rule 3(1) (d) of the Coal Blocks Allocation
Rules, 2017 read with Section 11A of the Mines and Minerals (Development
and Regulation) Act, 1957 and to say that the Central Government has
approved the methodology for auction of coal mines/blocks identified under the
relevant Act for sale of coal as mentioned in para 2 below:

2.1 Methodology for auction of coal mines for sale of coal on Rs. per tonne

basis:

 2.1.1 Bid Parameter: The auction will be an ascending forward auction
whereby the bid parameter will be the price offer in Rs./tonne which will

be paid to the State Government on the actual production of coal.

 The floor price shall be unit ratio in terms of Rs. per tonne basis,
determined in accordance with methodology as mentioned at Sl. No. 1 of
Ministry of Coal’s order no. 13016/9/2014/CA-III dated December 26,
2014 at Annexure-I.

 The bidder who submits the highest price offer (Final Price Offer)
shall be the Successful Bidder.

 2.1.2 Sale and/or Utilisation of Coal: There shall be no restriction on
the sale and/or utilization of coal from the coal mine. The Successful

Bidder shall be free to sell coal in any manner as may be decided by the

Page 1 of 3

Successful Bidder including sale to affiliates and related parties, utilize

coal for captive consumption and export of coal.

 2.1.3 Coal Production Schedule: Successful Bidder shall have certain
degree of flexibility to manage its production depending on the market
scenario and will be allowed to reduce its production below Peak Rated
Capacity of the coal mine. Successful Bidder shall also be allowed to
increase its production subject to a revision in Mining Plan and statutory
approvals. While the Successful Bidder shall be allowed to manage his
production quantity (subject to the cap as per the Mining Plan) in the
event of any economic downturn or other such event, a drop in the
actual production is allowed, not below 50% of the production as per the
Mining Plan. However, in any five year block, the Successful Bidder will

have to mine out at least 70% of the production as per the Mining Plan.

 2.1.4 Annual Adjustment of the Final Price Offer (including windfall
gains, if any): Windfall gain can be defined as a very significant increase
in revenue in comparison to increase in costs. During the mining lease
period, as a natural course, it is expected that the selling price of coal as
well as cost of production will increase due to inflation. Windfall gains
may arise in some situations, resulting in significant increase in the

profit of Successful Bidder.

 In order to capture the potential revenue upside, including windfall gains
(if any), the Final Price Offer (Rs./tonne) shall be considered as base for
the year of bidding with yearly adjustment linked to the Wholesale Price
Index -— coal (of relevant grade) as published by GOI, Ministry of
Commerce and Industry (website: www.eaindustry.nic.in) subject to the
condition that such figure shall not at any time be less than the Final
Price Offer. It shall be the responsibility of the concerned State
Governments to carry out the above calculation for determining adjusted

Final Price Offer and collecting the same from the Successful Bidder.

 Page 2 of 3
2.2 For sale of coal, Foreign Direct Investment to the extent of 100% may be
allowed in coal mining activities including associated processing infrastructure
to attract international players to create efficient and competitive coal market.
 The nodal Ministry/Department i.e. Department of Industrial Policy and

Promotion shall be approached for the same.

 2.3 Washing of coal by the Successful Bidder should be as per extant

guidelines of M/o Environment, Forest and Climate Change.

 2.4 The mines to be auctioned for sale of coal and their time schedule shall be
decided by the Ministry of Coal.

2.5 Terms and Conditions / modalities including eligibility criteria shall be
decided by Ministry of Coal as the same are part of Tender Conditions.

 2.6 The above methodology for auction of coal mines shall also be applied for
the coal mines to be auctioned for sale of coal under the provisions of the
MMDR Act, 1957 and Rules made thereunder.

 This issues with the approval of Competent Authority.

 (Rishan Lb —

Under Secretary to the Government of India

To

1) The Nominated Authority, Ministry of Coal

2) JS (NKS), Ministry of Coal: For appropriate necessary action in respect of
auction of coal mines under the relevant provisions of the MMDR Act, 1957
and Rules made thereunder.

3) Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion: For necessary action with
respect to para 2.2 above.

 Copy to :

1) TD (NIC) — with the request to upload on the website of Ministry of
Coal

Page 3 of 3
| Annodrce—L-

Most Immediate

‘No. 13016/9/2014-CA-III
Government of India
Ministry of Coal

Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi,
Dated the 26% December, 2014

ORDER

Subject:- Methodology for fixing Floor/Reserve Price for Auction and
Allotment of Coal Mines/Blocks.

 In accordance with the provisions of Rule 8(3) of the Coal Mines
(Special Provisions), Rules, 2014 and Section 8(5) of the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions), Ordinance, 2014 the Government is pleased to approve the
Methodology for fixing Floor/Reserve Price for Auction and Allotment of Coal
Mines/Blocks as mentioned below:-

METHODOLOGY FOR FIXING FLOOR/RESERVE PRICE

na For fixing floor price for Auction for sectors like Steel, Sponge iron,
Cement, Captive Power etc.:

 The Intrinsic Value of the coal block will be calculated by computing its
Net Present Value (NPV), based on Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) method. The
10 % of this intrinsic value will be payable upfront in 3 installments of 5%,
2.5% and 2.5% as prescribed in the bidding document. The fina] NPV (after
subtracting the upfront payment received from the bidder) will then be
annuitized to. become equal to a unit ratio in terms of Rs/tonne (viz. floor
price). In this case for calculation of intrinsic value, it is proposed that, the
extant notified price of CIL (price of domestic coal) for the non-regulated
sectors for the corresponding GCV bands will be taken into account for
computing NPV. However, floor price shall not be less than Rs. 150/- per
tonne. The resultant bid price (Rs/tonne) shall be considered as base for the
year of bidding with yearly escalation linked to the WPI. The statutory royalty
payable on coal will continue to be governed as per extant rules.

 2. For fixing Reserve Price for coal mines /blocks to be allotted for
power projects to be set up in future on tariff based bidding (Case-2) and

3. For fixing Reserve Price for coal mines/blocks to be allotted to the
Government Companies for specified end-uses :

A fixed Reserve Price of Rs.100/- per tonne of coal shall be payable, as

per actual production by the successful allottee. The statutory royalty payable
ee

oe

-2-

on coal will continue to be governed as per extant tules. This would ensure
that there is no adverse impact on power tariff. The successful allottee shall
have to pay upfront payment, as may be prescribed in the tender/allotment
document. There is no bidding on coal under these two categories. The
Reserve Price’ may be escalated using a pre-determined formula that  is
prescribed in, now prevailing Standard Bidding Documents for Case-1 bidding
as formulated by Ministry of Power for escalation of fuel cost from captive
mines. However, for existing generation capacity contracted through tariff bid
based PPAs (Case-2), arranging fuel is the responsibility of power procurer.
 Such Case-2 projects shall not be eligible to participate in the auction process

for the coal blocks.

 4. . For fixing the ceiling price for coal mines/blocks to be auctioned
for generation capacity having cost plus PPAs or for generation capacity
having tariff bid based PPAs (Case-1)/generation. capacity to be
contracted through cost plus PPAs or through tariff bid based PPAs
(Case-1) in future :
a. A Ceiling Price of CIL Notified price for cach coal biock will be
fixed and the bidders will be mandated to quote lower than this Ceiling
Price. The Ceiling price shall be fixed at Run-of-Mine (ROM) price of
equivalent grade, as specified by CIL for the power sector. The bidder
quoting the lowest will be the successful bidder. This will be taken for
transfer price to the plant from the coal block. The resultant bid price
of coal will be escalable in line with a pre-specified escalation formula
for the purpose of considering the energy charge. This method will
ensure that the benefit of lower bid price is passed through to the

consumers.”

b. The bid price of coal shall be considered as base for the year of
bidding and it shall be escalable with pre-determined formula that is
prescribed in now prevailing Standard Bidding Document for Case-1
bidding as formulated by MoP, for escalation of fuel cost ae captive

mines.

 c. A fixed Reserve Price of Rs.100/- per tonne of coal shall be
payable, as per actual production by the successful allocattee. The
statutory royalty payable on coal will continue to be governed as per
extant rules ie. at the CIL notified price. Similarly, the reserve price
may also be escalable using the same formula as in ‘b’ above.

 d. The successful allottee shall have to make upfront payment @ 10
% of the intrinsic value of the coal block in 3 installments of 5%, 2.5%
and 2.5%, as prescribed in the bidding document. j rf

fa Sys

e.

fe

To ensure that, the benefit of coal is passed on to the consumers,

the following conditions has been prescribed:

i
mandated to cap its merchant capacity at 15 % of the generating

x: For generation capacity having cost plus PPAs or
generation capacity to be contracted through cost plus PPAs
in future — For the purpose of determining the fuel cost for cost

_plus PPAs, the Appropriate Commission will allow bid price of

coal along with subsequent escalation as provided in coal block
bid document as being equivalent to the Run of Mine (ROM) cost
of coal together with other allowable expenses and levies,
provided that it shall not lead to higher energy charge throughout
the tenure of PPA than that which would have been obtained as
per the terms and conditions of the existing PPA.

Il. For the generation capacity contracted en tariff
bid based PPAs (Case-1) —- The Appropriate Commission ‘shall
review the quoted energy charge keeping in view that the actual
bid price of coal along with subsequent escalation as provided in

coal block bid document as being equivalent ‘to Run of Minc
(ROM) cost of coal alongwith statutory levies and other
permissible components of energy charge, provided that such
revision shall not lead to higher energy charge throughout the
tenure of PPA than that which would have been obtained as per
the terms and conditions of the existing PPA. For this purpose,
the allocation of coal block under the new provisions shall be
treated as “Change in Law” to enable the Appropriate Commission
to revise the tariff downwards in accordance with the provisions

of PPA.

 Ul. For the generation capacity to be contracted through
tariff bid based PPAs. (Case-1) in future - The Appropriate
Commission shall while adopting the tariff under Section 63 of
the Electricity Act, 2003, ensure that the energy charge is derived
based on the actual bid price of coal along with subsequent
escalation as provided in coal block bid document as being
equivalent to Run of Mine (ROM) cost of coal alongwith statutory
levies and other permissible components of energy charge.

Iv. For this purpose Ministry of Power will make suitable
provisions in the Tariff policy and/or in the bidding
guidelines issued under the Electricity Act, 2003.

 For power plant having uncontracted capacity, the bidder shall be

A=
<i
-4-

capacity linked to the allotted coal block for sale of power outside
medium and long terrm PPAs contracted under Section 62 or Section 63
of the Electricity: Act, 2003. Further the bidder shall have to pay an
additional reserve price for the quantum of coal used for power sold in
the merchant market. The additional reserve price for coal used for
merchant sale of power shall be based on intrinsic value of the coal
block annuitized over the yearly production in Rs/tonne terms. The
intrinsic value can be arrived at with the existing approved methodology
for steel/sponge iron/cement sectors/captive power. The additional
Reserve Price shall not be less than Rs. 150/- per tonne. Further the
resultant additional reserve price (Rs/tonne) shall be considered as
base for the year of bidding with yearly escalation linked to the WPI.

 5. Any further revision of CIL price after the bid due date wouid not have
any impact on the bid price of the blocks already bid as escalation on that
price has already been provided for in para 4,(b) above. For future bidding of
coal blocks, the then prevailing CIL price will be considered for determining

ceiling price.
 6. For auction/allotment of coal blocks for the purpose of sale of coal as

provided in Section (2) of the Coal Mines (Special Provision) Ordinance,
2014, a separate methodology will be formulated.

 This issues with the approval of Competent Authority.
 =
(S.K. SHAHI)

Director
Ph.23382807

Nominated Authority,
Ministry of Coal

Copy t
TD (NIC) — with the request to upload on the website of Ministry of Coal

tart Ho To Weto-33004/99 REGD. NO. D. L.-33004/99

Che Gazette of Jndia

EXTRAORDINARY
am [aus 3—sa-UE (i)
PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (i)
wifrere & wenrfyrat
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

a. 625) we facet, qecaftan, arms 13, 2017/3TaTS 22, 1939

No. 625] NEW DELHI, THURSDAY, JULY 13, 2017/ASADHA 22, 1939
BTA AATT
afeeerar
a feet, 13 garg, 2017

arf. 877(8). eas AHS FT ara ate atror (fara car farsa) afar, 1957 (1957 ar
67) #t art 11% aes Hott aaa & fore ATat arr afar art Ft oat ws Paeat sik saa Hae
Haat ar Seeres HUA Sq AAA-AaT Ie Tara, are site after (fara gar faftaaa) afafras, 1957
(1957 *T 67) Ft aret 13 AT ST are (2) FAVS (A) ArT Tact aPrat HT WANT Hed VU 2 Heras, 2012 aT
frat art arren arat at ofaerat areft fra, 2012, arferaRra fear at;

a, aa ate after (fara car fafa) aferfra, 1957 (1957 ar 67) #t arer 11% ailz are 13
$l Tq-aTeT (2) B AVES (a) HT HTT aT (Ferg Saree) aferfrrA, 2015 (2015 wr 11) * art |@ Ft aaa 4
are dented frat wat 2 Brea Ata art star erat Ft ufterat areft fare, 2012 ar aera AAT
HaAITH Sl WATS;

aa:, 4a, Aktt Tea ares site afte (ara ate fafa) afafrars, 1957 (1957 ar 67) Ft art
13 €t ST are (1) ate arer 13 FT Sa (2) F AVS (A) aT Vaca ofsaat aT waT wed eu, eaferfaa
fraa aarct 2, sata :-

aearea 1: a fered are atte ToT
4. aferet ara site ore :- (1) sat Frat ar afer as eT sors arate fH, 2017 21
(2) ae tras F arora AY area BT Wace SAT
2. oRearerd :- ca Porat F ore oe Pe dat & aero ara fera a ST
(*) afer’ & are aie afar (fare itz fara), 1957 (1957 aT 67) aha F;

4317 GI/2017 (1)
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part II—SEC. 3(i)]

(2)

(7)
(4)

(©)
(*)
(@)
()
(@)
(#7)

(2)

(2)

1)

3)

(™)

(@)

(4)
()

fet oafta & dae Ft dag’ a ate aq caiea TT ya aT aeget | OF fAeaferfe wea Z,

(i) Ta oaiea at Para wea & aT
(ii) Oat cafes art Freahra erat z; ar
(iii) Tet aahee art Patra Star S ST Teeter: aT errata: Wa cafe ar Farha wear S; aT
(iv) Ta eater Ft om TeqaT ett g;

easdtary -—sa as are & few “aagaed bo” ar aet ae eh TT cera HoT fata,
2013 (2013 HT 18) Ft aret 2 TAATT (6) FB;

“arden” & ara F fifece arctan site frat afar &;

“aaen” a afafian Ft are 11% ave (m) att (a) & Teeqa F fees Frage sarah ar ater
afar 2;

“arden areor” & faa 8 & oo frre (5) F faeces ares ater afer 2;

“arden eaves” & fare 6 oa-frare (1) F fafece eearast afar 2;

“fray & arferfrra FY aren 11% AY Se are (1) & efter Brae sarreat AY aH Ter afr 2;
“areal a are” & are HoT aT fares aha zt Brrr serrate Ft rerret F sre act S;

“sare Sthsrae” & fare 4 oo fae (1) F faeces cers SR afar 2;

“afeanaa flea’ a dtr acer are Peat arrear sare & few fara Fite ra Peat Ate art
arated fear arat 2; afara g

“arrea” # varie, facet, feraree fie ate ere site arw we FS oft fate ar facta feet
wea wy Ff predaraa dart afeafera 2;

“RTA sah” F Tar ast BlTeT aren ara @ fra faa 3% oo faa (1) & Gs (H) FH aA
geared Pear wat 3;

arrer fer & tet ater afte 2, Prat arzet seores aeardt aot ar fara ate Soa
Hem tag Sot arate Hare At oat was Patera & arqpare alae arg & fore wes ear wat SI
‘fara’ aferster fresrnt at fen wet at afeare ar water at Para wea ar Peet aah ar
orferat are, aera at dae eo A, yerera: aT aerate wae fe fare, freee atria
srH TAT are HA AT ars A aT Waters Bh arorere AT Maat HTT AT AT HLA FH HA AT
Prat area Ata a, ats;

caprae Abra” a kr aa are STAT sare few fae tae afta & fre afte tart
are arated frat STAT 2

‘afta fray & frat ft cafe aftr f set aeft arrest arett ar apraa Ftaa F Sea are,
fatter cearasr & fafafece tet rat reais, aq: Sewhra Hear art fera 2;

“age bo” & tet aot a aes ott a dae Z, afte 2;

‘aaacra fase watt ara” & aear Far Pepe aPeatoraatt  watorat th fer dha aTHe aT
afstec area afteror arr fafa are atfeaca atftra & atte
[MFT ave 3(i)] ARG UST: START 3

(4)

a)
(7)
(*)
(4)

(#)

(*)

(7)
(7 #)

(74)

(471)

(474)

(i) aver Fart fge afar & aPrater & feo arated af cer ate sear af at ae ar
arqartes & arefte fergrer wast ATT BT TATA HLA BT VST BT;

(i) RY ae ATA oa ae TAT BIT THT RY Aas HLTA Sas Ga, Fara ate
warert aferare AT WAST ATT ATT HLA BT TST HTT;

“agg was a ware” & acer A faa cRatsarsit wars & few Addr acare ae

afafea trea attrac are faite are afar afr & att :-

i) aver Far faa afar & froqrad & fore thee & foro ofeerat atett arene ae Peet
reer tr freq Thar ores aT ata hea Pear are;

ii) aeet Fart fre a Reta & Poorest & fore fear atqarfta areat & ary faela wa HT
facoriea arr;

iii) aaa fare vast art ATA We VS FH ates ae eat FT faa wate F
aferato & foro arafere fh ceo att aadcaar Pere wats are BY artes areata STAT
 aad HT aaa PTT Tae ST A HT KAT,

“outta” F are Hot ar ara aT eaitent ar feara afeatere enn, are fara a at at;

“ate ardfed? a fre 6 & sa-faaa (8) F aa frefora Ae arafedt afrra 2;

“ae ateft oat aver” & frre 5 oa-fraa (6) F azar Frefore are ag areat athe 2;

“se Arar” & Tart ar tet vata afr & set atreft oor are at apram Fra & fr

aveft, fifrar sqarast & fatifece tet erat a terete, stra: seHPre wear aa fert ST;

“acer Wea” A arated at edt Area are arafea srr sears & fru Ae aeare are Pratt

frre 4 afer 3;

“ane arated? & sa aKa ateftara Tar at arated & ahrse S sear FH ara-ara seere frat

Ta 2;

mat aaa” & Ta aH asta & arr S sar fH Fora 6 & oa fra (9) F Sere Pear aT ZI

“ane areftarn” & sa ae areftarat A aferra & sat fH fave 5 oo frre (8) F area Pear

Ta 2;

“fafa aearaw” a sa fatter aearaar & afera & sar fH fare 5 & so-fraa (1) F seer ear

TAT 21

“seer tom fage oor’ a va fee watt a afese & ot aeafere Soret wrest az

aratita anf fret carfta erat 3960 Aarave  (wASergq) ayaT saa afte anf avar tet

arrat shat Pe aha aeare are fratita fear sre frre reget afer, 2003 (2003 it 4. 36) fr
art 63% afta a acer arr afeaaa acer tar fee ohare & free At atte & few
areft $i orcaeft wfrar & atewa thee & fratcor  feer-frgert & aefta Ha acare FT yaa

aku ope Ft we tite avatita ofterat aeft aera A we a af Use aya aa tse aa A

aaaant ara fage ft aha 4 dag ST, TAT

“Sead Feary” TAT “Her Teoraa Hata” Ft ahroaherat ar arfers faera afafara, 2003 (2003

At Hear 36) F fAfece feat wat er

(2) SA great ste Tat aT, ST STH ara z Peg There ae @ siz afarars F aff S aet ae Se ST
aa afattaa & mar: STH SI
4 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part II—SEC. 3(i)]

wears — 2 Atearrat ate arte war
3. ardent aia: (1) kta aeare HTT saat H ardent H ae H ear fad att :-
(®) Aree cae ht arravet & arqare area & foro arqer serrat Ft Gear AT;
(3) araea AY Ae ar faeaferfera & arema a fatafece wear, -
(i) Ararfy; at
(ii) arferfrera AY ere 11 aes (mF) TeegeH Harel aca aot ar fra HY aretea; AT
(iii) arferfrera FY ere 11% 2 avs (a) Tega & eft Hot aT PTs AT arden;

(T) 0 Blaze saat hardest waters HT fafa fete ae, Brae etenta fast soar ar faa & fare, weg
aa ae ata a ar, He

eosdtaeyy - fisit saster & stata Bree ar STAT HF aeca Sra AA ae TAT SEIT HT Tea;
serrat Tegrt H ATETA A ees wr Scared; Hleq Seoved Aas aTeaA a fgqa wr scares; Hhie ar
seat; Stent aT Seared; HTT Tew Aer SF Sas HT Sasa; AT ara BTS Se] STAT
oT hktr aeare aearst terra & afereparar are faaface ae, At SI

aed fast saattt yates & fee sree saree aT arder Pau ara Ft aor AH els AHI FA TT-
fae & aefta aor fatatece wan ar oe & afte acy soa ar Pret aaah

(3) added ar flat darea aes 3h foro cares araes fafafee ser, free atenta afie Ataret ar set
frat art sara oft 2;

(3) fra 4 F aor fafa face vet arent ser & fore saree STRaz Fae HAT; AT
(4) ars ser ART, Bra ee aa Ba faa oT cat Paat & erpare aie aa;

(2) Ser acare & fru we ar oe & afer aaa ar tea ae aa, rat ere Hares, Ady aT
aq dareat ar fant & aaer Shh aa a faeras, aT dts acare ar frorter west & few fas 3
oa-Faae (1) & attra & foro aA 1

(3) eta een Fare 3 o-Ps (1) & arqare aha Tw HA HH AAT faa 5 FH aaa F arqare
rear Ft ofear ar fra 6 ar fara 7, set sft feat a, 2 areas arte wha ope ath

4. sah Stra : (1) Har HTS, Ta ITT STS AAT BH ATA TTA LTT Sar HT Sesh STRAT
ferfard so F dare aot reat Prefered ont at aad &-

() abies aa, are Sere aA ee ATH AT, HT Soeee ST, alee He sear ar ac;

(@) Peet oat aren arrer saree ash FH ys aarfera Ft 7S arterr shear, Geer shar at aa
afar, TT ATT a, F sae

(2) a aeare afaat aaa, ae are B, MATE Te ser SAAT art HT aT

5, tert : (1) faa 3 oa-fae (1) Gs (a) els Akt aeare art fafa face Peo ae raze serrate
aaa Fade acer Areart wheat & fro wae aearasr arate fafa eearast dare Bh

(2) vee Faferar cearar F tet aaa omer Seht Bra dtr acer Areart & waters ais aay, Brat
faeaferfed afta art :-

() sare StRrae Brae arent cerry er are ST;
(@) Brae carat & artes ar Tater ST arr are aT fat ae aA FS;
[MFT ave 3(i)] ARG UST: START 5

(3)

(4)

(5)

(a) ardatts Ataf 4 aafera rare we ord, Brad afte recht & ara Ff freras free ar Rat
frat & ara Ft afaeraa tra, Raed tert & are F arefera tra, aera Ft ore, rere
sare Ft ohrarr ate rer aatfert aaa, afeafers SI

(4) weave ® foro aaqeta;

(S.) wet Tet ars aver ATA ATT Pew ores are Haret TT Sha fF Fears 8  oa-fAaa (1) F
fafaféce feat wat ZI

anftarct et freart ofear A wets Breer ser 2 fore ast are wae aroha ars Mew BT TATA HAT
aafert arm;

aly TCHS HT A HH UH aT ae UH at aor & creda aarareaa B hart Sq ars aA
art aaft atc te arses aa Hae aera fata face errr reve fafeter eearast area Pear sea

sara aca frat aed aaa Paeaterfee cfr ar rq BOT, tater :-

(®)  geteerite ftemft — arent cerret ft tert ofa seraar hte frat & aera a afafran,
sae frat, faferar searast ate iets aes art SA arent, ahs Hrs ST, 2 aare Aarfera FT
sath

(@) Aref sitar — (a) Aer ofan at aeort & arth res —

(i) wath arch; siz

(ii) Fretrr ate aarface Sef

(at) caHttht ateft agar 2 water & fare ate facia steht amet are ora avert frac
wars arf

(3) facdta atett at ta Soest F faerie ar aot Pear sea Sat Atte aeare aT
aaa

(1) Wearat — Sata acer fafa searasr F tare F arr aa aver aftearet Aq ANY TAT stat FT
fatafice eat fread fFreafertere ar onfire fear or aaa S-

(i) Arar & anfrarct At cath ait facia agare;
(ii) Arar afer & fare fata fece afar ar arqares; az
(iii) TH TTA BH wT A are Arent Vara Hea FAT araeaHAT!

(3) Feta sears areftararat At cath atte faedta orerar & Prato a wares Aas acHe aT
Fraritat aza a fere wa afate ar ven ae aadt & rast sree Aare, Hala aH eT
Harerat ar fast & waar site faftet sat cath faerasr, reg SRrat aaa aru, ofr zr
aad ZI

(&.) afe errant sare araet cat Ft aaa & wares ATert aa Piece fear wat Z, TT se aT
srart aRatsrar Fi errat rae fer we ateftarat ateft & cer 3, Brat ers FT area F
aria & aft star f fafece fear wat Sr;

(3) Seta acer afeenas tear F Aree carat ar Brzer tert FY Arar, ar arat Hr fafafece ae
fare feeht aeott ar Fara ar sath cere ott at ae at artes frat at aA SI

(6) Ararat ofan got art oe Atearst & oRorrae & arrearre oe athe atetteran Ft ator At seat
6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part II—SEC. 3(i)]

(7) aarfera Ft we Arar Ft tet ais ra adies caer ou, sae are Ha aa HTT STs
aferart areftarar at art atefraran attra ae aeat Sf aT Ble serrey ay erat shear BT TE HT THT ZI

(8) afe arazer sare aot ara & vatrrars fafece St sar z ate ae areftarar rah ora Brrr feast 2,
weet areftarar Fat aT %, Ta Aes TIaTT Aas fer VS raze Pease aac HF HTT weg HT FT
araat Sa arare oe far ot sear S rah areas ae ae He Sreftarar Bar , Star FH kht aa aNet
faféce fear ara

6. arden:- faa 3 Sa-fAaa (1) 2 avs (a) H To-ave (ii) H aefts Hala AH A ST HTT Sarat Res
aeardt aot ar feaera aT arctan Hea *® fore fafece fear 2, % aaa A Ade aca aren ia Aq UH
SeqTaT HAts Aer seaTAT Tare HOTT

(2) earn ardet sears H OT aaat orfter Ft ot aaadt f Are te aeare artes yar A a
aaat Bradt frresferfers ofa ait:

(®) care STRrax Braet arr cerry ar Parcor ore at;

(@) Bre sash * artes Hr Tats Braet eroet are ar fat ofr at aeeq aha a ar;

(1) atest 4 tag od ate Pata Brae arcfera aes, oerar FY ord, artes fore arated eat At Prarata,
arden aed AY apa ae area aaferar aa TAs a;

Weed are saree ae F recht Gara Arora ae eT Ft TES B, HealsT AHIR HTT Se H FH aes iT
tet ara & fre @ert arora sare HAA Fh aS arefera Gea Pafece ae; ate He ara faa 8 & S7-fraa (1)
FH qarfafece were UH ATT ST A UH areata Ta eda HoT Sar Pe ede aeare aret fafece fear
ie

(8) weet araedt are Ares Peo ast are searfaea Haret aya star fe fae 8-H sa-fraa (1) F fafece
frat wat SI

(3) hetta acare ft car sash sro Fea A He Us-oH oes Taras vat F ardent Fq UH ardor
atfes srt aett sic sa arose ates A ag cafe fafece At srosft ferret area aearast area fear
ara Rarer aeare Oe aaah aT ST AT AAT TET T FATT

(4) arden ceavast F arden Bq Aree fase St site Wa areat F Preaferfars ofr ate :-
(*) arate are fara F ee ae are stat % fara At orf ale Fre Sy;
(a) fraat arate siz af raz afea artes & faxie aah;
(7) areten At coetthy rare site Gara Se STAT Ht Sara Tear he Tre,
(a) APT-arg het er stare;
(3.) Tse FY aaa aT aR
(A) aS Se Hat At ToT AAT a ATA
(i) wea sear aaa Ft cart Ft fear;
(i) wea seat after At ara rare sate A Pea;
(iii) The Bere sath artes aT Seem SerTaa eee F Pepa Tear Hea ag Braet AT aa wT F fae
@, araan Hot F teat F ofa oaks fea Sree
(&) Heals aeare Bre sartat AT arferears ea ar Bre sere AT UA srrat arat ffs ae aad f rst
Peet poet ar fra ar carht ern bot ar setters ost at ara fer Pear st aha ZI
[MFT ave 3(i)] ARG UST: START 7

(5) -afe arrer sate caso yar 2a fAfee 2 aie arrears arden THT adel & aa
arg saan aaa & fee arzer fear rere areas ae ater aretfedt arte 2,  arqare Ble We HLA AT
ara UA sare Ue aT Heals aHTe PASS He, HT ST suafh

(6) edhr acer wa afte aa eet Rr sere are Aarera A ae aa, ara Aa HT A
a ar ad erm ait area aeeg etter aa & fara dares ae fast aan fara sat Ua cathy
fastest Shr St ove arated oe are aes Uae arsed eeavast F fAfee arrdet  arare at ardent AT aTrTaT
 wl AHAT BT SI TTT ST

(7) afafa afe sv-frae (6) * ca 2a aaa AAS, UST ACH Get He sats feaa z, F
wfafferat at srifra ae andi 2

(8) 9 wre araaat oe fare wet ate arden aeavast H fafee aradet & aac ae ardent AT ara aT
AAT HOA TAT Hears TATE BT aot rarer Tega Sot ras arrest F a swahra weer arate ar
ara aie OA aa Sq HITT sate Fates att

(9) Reale aeare artes Ft ata, ST aragrrar St, Tear Bre satten & fore aoe areafefe at Het
aad er F arte Ht alt ar Are sate Ft arent ofa te we aah

(10) eettr aa safee Ff ait fered Sr F aot Het og Prafeted at arrer sate artes ea Sat ar
am feet ft soater F ge vara we aad S:-

(i) WH aeart aot a ete aca are vafae az Fafae fara, ar

(i) them (acer FT oat Tae Ae) Za Thea areft Harare ae St TA arf Fras Trax WE
F arrest & seater eq Bre aa Hat ar TT

aed thee (acer Aa aac wre Aiea) Sa aiaereh set  areare ae ah OTA ref fetes oat
wire Ferre saath Bq Hrs aeardt ot ar ars AY Alaa sattH artes Tae F alla aT
tien og vitae ate corres & od are fag Hares S area He aT Bea ATT HoT aT FT aT
ta sate & foro aati ated va art eat ate gerard Pree oP array Tart Hea BH TTT
fraa 8 4 fates ofan & aqare sifan ardedt aresr art Pear Se

7. fage aR & foro eee arare ae ofeerat ararite ate ar area: faa 5 aera 6 & fAfet
front & avag, Sette aeons afataaa as 11H sre Gs (a) aqare faa 3-H oa-fAaa (1) Hae
(@) & Sq-az (Nl) tanta arated Sq HekT aca are ffee Peet At ere setten ar Peet ott ar fara ar
arated ae aadt & frat thee (acer Ae oraz Tera alee) Sq afderelf areft & evar ae fae aaa
ware Ft rs at ar Pete Hares, AIT AHI are US Peter WS oat Sar als AHI STH aH ST; TA
arden 2q aeda FY TE SM

8. wae aeftara ar ae ardfedt At are ware whan: (1) fray 5 =F sadeat F agar arta
atettarat ar frre 6 Sadat agers athe Het arate ar Fae 7 arate ae arash rs aHTT FH ATT
aaata for Brat ares tq fraers ua od fafee shh atx Bra oa-frare (7) 2 areas ware Pear Sea
(2) frre 6 & atente arden & ame F ae rat & ara aA F area ara & ara-ara Praferfead seat
ait :-

(i) ane aradt Hraet ar saan Sat afore wast Sq err rears fer Brae sate aT are ear
aT zl
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part II—SEC. 3(i)]

(ii)

(ii)

(ix)

(x)

(xi)

afe araer salar ar ardest ca-soart & fore 2, afe aad Srarer sath A ore Braet Ft gers
@ al oat aad are et ere Paras aoe YS eae A ar ar frgera Feat aT

ate arrest ar arden Bret fewer oq SZ, Ta HTT sath A Tofed Sra Haars wea,
TTT att oraoff aa Fe aTera & Pear sa

ae Brae sath aaa HT SALA SeaTast Teoreg H ATera a ga sere H Hae as FH ST
fates fear wat & at arafefe are aaa fea aaa & fore raze er Soar Pear soa rare
fora aka aeare are aaa oe aT fear Ate agers fea wat aH Te BEATAT
far a

HTS BT STA ATH SAT AAT Be Gera Ve Ft aera We ora arqae SMT

arafefa jodt eae siz aqarfed aaa arra F aorfahiee aeat a aes are saat
feara & fora sacar arr

aad sot ar fora aerar are ft jot geret at aot were Hot aT dag aot FH
Frere & amet ard fedt F eprara few ae sare Ohh ar aechter wera a arfers cris seat cari

aarrer fare ar aT THIS AT UIST ATT are Tere Pratt ares wate ar arret * fac
wa saat & aaa F arafedt aot ger afée arate fed arfera aot:

ata afe fae 6 & sa-faam (10) ® stenta arated titm (aver AT aac wire ales) Aq
ofaecef ate 2 amare oe fau ae fies oat ate F sree At soarArar eq Peet aearst
aertt ar fare at Pear sat @, at faeqa Harera A tte aeare arr Set faer-Feert  aepare
ofeereft atch a amare oe faa oR feu ora & garg faster water atest wafer Hed
eu avafern Ret afar Pew set

afe stra sate ar fara Peet ara ferent site wares arr fear sat @ dt ta aT
faararnat ud waren ar aaa wider ateft ofa & areas A anh ate ane ardfedt arr
feararnat ws wares fa aed us te t aie ta Prater wes oat ar afar wa aa Ht els
ATT AT Usa AHS HY PAT FUT

ane aradt ae aftfere eer fe ara farernat site carere Ft fags eq ateft arade Bret
Siem fafaes A afaqira ax a fee a aT

arm farreat vst wares ast searaait Fh ca-care Her ae US aeaaer Aart eq aH
aad, Ter aca Ue dT HTS HT TITS HATTA

(3) Fram 7 ®& stenta arated 2 araet F awe arated ara aaate A aeg arat  ara-ara Fras 8H aT-
frre (2) & Sz (i), (ii), (v), (vi) Ae (vill) F FAS ort avr SPM

(4) aH aeftarat A ae atfera errr FH ae Hala Tee BH Ter H dts aca arr Far fates afr was safer
a fru Poorest tm are sera HUTT ste Ot Porras see aA Bt Prefered fe eer satq

(i) ae fan ort wes arahadtre sr
(ii) Fe ere ara fara & fore ets aca are sar Paes athta west & AST cea; ate
(iii) Froarest te aE Teg ETAT feta Peet facta, arafe, Hfere, fatter ar garage ST
[MFT ave 3(i)] ARG UST: START 9

ag afe fran 6 ® sa-fram (10) & stata arden them (acer A oat Tre Alea) Ar
ofeereff are  ararc a feu ae fees oraz oistae F rarer Ft Soa Aa Sa Peet aears att
at fra at fear sat 2, at fee Aare F ttt acer art are feon-faeat & apa
wfaeref atett & amare oe fae aR feu oat garg at ardfedt Ft ate & fase
wae ated Tarfera Het ET Prearest sew aT A Seah
(5) sa-ferra (1) Tar (2) F sar Aas wae Hea ate Sa-Fraa (3) F gar fafes froored tee are yeaa
eet he sata aH aah Brzer sats Rr ape arafefe At sro Ft we oft, he aah A dtr aca F
AAT AIM WTA HOA BT SHAT SVT
(6) aren ares art eat earas aaa eer Pe aH ardfedt aaa aaa F afatlan as 11 wT
aft aterat va frat ar aqarert Pear wat & ate ae arated afaftan & Ge 11 HW sade (3)
TTA TST HHT Faas BTA sath ATA FH TAT ASAT AT GTA TET ITT HLA ST SHAM SPT!
(7) ga fae & sa-frre (1) ar (2) ar (3) F aor fafatee wae Ft rae wa ora BY lpr carat & fer
waa oe ft Pater ws ora Footer wer arear-arer Hala AHTe AT UT Aare AT reg ater ws
ota ent st atts fRarra frre & stent Sager S ate Garr TET Vara HAA H GIR Sat ere So-eet
(1) qa (2) aerar (3) Haar fase ware HATA Sl STTATI
(8) GAA TET Tare HOA FH BIRT Aalaa UST ATH GAT ATT | TAT HITE Beaadt BfAfera Her ST
are ara fedt & aot ger F Poorest ten ae AT THT ZI
atg afe faa 6 & oa-frae (10) & atenta arated tite (acer Aa Wax Wisrre Alea) Sa vier are
amare a fau ae fers oraz wsrre H Braet At Soar Ara Sq Peet aca ae ar fara BY Pear sar @, aT
fage Fares Fitter aca art ort fear-freart & arene wteret atett stare oz fae Ratt few
Set TAT THe arsed At ares Farge wats atest Warfera Hed ET Prearsst te ares St eh
(9) sa-frara (4) & stenta veda favored dee areét sa-faaar (8) & stnta froored Fe art vega wet aT
sa-frre (1) Tat (2) + azar fAfee were sara & 60 fea vara, at ft Tact St, at aratfedt at areca we aT
srasft
(10) ott AAS Bret atder area area arate are Patras a eatat + feed feu ot aad Z, ata:
(®) « sa-Frere (1) aa (2) Sasa atenia Pew ae Here Fh ovat ar Veet;
 (a) whet ardfedt arc aeat i fear seat
(1) afaftae & ante sare ae afatias & sodet ws fat ar sett
(4) aera car faeea wee Ft feat
(5) aaa ae & Prater ed oat aoe ara F afar test ear FT rarer az; ar
(a) Sit acer & far 8 0a aren ee fara eo 4 at fer ore at; wafed F arden feed
FCAT AATF ST
(9) Ga: tere site ga: aren .- fram 5, fae 6 ar fae 7 & aan & ft ofpar ar ares afar
facet atm, srt off feat at, Pret oft arcoraer etter acne & ore BT sertat AT terra ar artest Ft TS
ofeat at faa 3 Ft aor fares aa ardent ofrar qa: ce eed FT orite arth
10 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part II—SEC. 3(i)]

aeara I: fafaer

10. Hae satant & afeeedas saa fers erager.- (1) cast He TTaNT ars Sq HTT sel det FH
are &, aHet arafedt ar arrer fear aren alse ae YS Aqaiaa A arta Tarfaar aaa HA AT
sated & set waters 2a Frage sats Fh afeerars Sra Sq Aer THe aad azar Higa Fest aH, SAT
 At are ST, wfars He AT STATA HLA Sq ITA SN
(2) sa-ferara (1) F atafstar Peet ft pore ar vatera & fore weave Hea aT THe ast aT Brae Peete
ferfara wa F dtr acHe TT ATS BUTT
(3) sa-Frera (2) 4 daftia araaa F Prafererd & at face ofa St, ara:

(®) wearfaa wert wad Spacer  yeraTT

(3) wearfae ware aT rarer

(a) ae Sfe free aera a OT ere aT rae are serteat ar afereas Soa att aeTa Warfaar

afta watt; atx

(3) deraret & Arrer feast  aate, ae are St
(4) araaa A U4, verare ae affera eet Pe were at rae & few aah cere He sate artes AT
aarrer feast ore ea TT AT ATTA ST, ST ITZ, SR OT Hare west ores aT fas aeq ZI
(5) Sater aeare Tearhaa BAe aT a eIT At a Aater HUT aca Paar aT at Sit ae St AAT
(6) Hata sears Ot rst Gear TT et arr H araers ST, ferfad areer aren vearhaa Hae AT Tae HT
 ot Se & aT afore wee areqaried ar redtenre ae aah
(7) HAT ATH ATA aT TATA HTT AAT VT ord AT He Gendt J AT VA Hart ws aearat * few qeraret
ae aera art
(8) Det Hat va Sraearatt ar froarad AT TA ae HTT Sattat A GAT Tarerst HOT ae AT Hla Peat
Tat BATA TTT HET TT Ter HTS WA HTT setts aT Hae PeeeT AH ater A Spas ast HAM
(9) Deft Heret at aaaerrait ar Proared Bt aa ae VA PAograd 15 arerarét feaat *& fac sah warhtra
ufe dtr acank art aa aee ale aa aT Oe rer ose ar fat & oat sar FY fh
(10) dfs 2a ofteref (acer At oat afar) & arare ae few a fears fae oar A rae AT
saathrar atc fra 7 & etenta ardfed arrer satat Sa sear ars oft fra, fran 6 & oo-fAaa (10)
 aante ardied are sate oe any ret SAT
(11) amet aedfedt & req dae > fore are ar Sea. ale ale settee aT aed Tat H STAT & fru at
at ane arafedt feet ere staan cate afta Braet ar saa ate aeare Ht fee wa Ht qa Ba
gu feet rea aaa a ae Pett were ot ar ares Hoh H SH ears Sq HL HAT SI

Weg odes Tae A, et raed cat Sra oq area Serre sats S SPT BT STANT Ts AH
san bot pat ar area aa Saft & frat ar Pera eat Het arated pot ar aap Term Sot aT
fare F aatfern ore etfs a, F He AHA aI
(2) sa-fre (1) F safe saan tet soathrar i aarfaa fafa a wa a aa dhe arta feos oS
srasft
(3) Adtr aeare VA Soa aaa A UT Paar aT saat a ae Sra aa ate Tet ord aor Paar
afetta ae aantt ot ae arses TAT
[MFT ave 3(i)] ARG UST: START 11

(4) chem 2a ofderef (eer Fa orac oar) & arare az feu ae fies faage waar A Freer Ft
sratirar cat fran 7 & stnta ardfed arzer satat Sa sareer Bre Aft faa, fre 6 & sa-frars (10)
aenta arafed ararer sate 9 aT Tet SAT

12. Arata area FY arfardl- (1) Ate ar arden, star sft arse @y, Ft ertardt awe arafedt arr
HAT ACH BT APTS HEA ET UST aca are aafahises ahs a safes Usa aH Teal HAT sa
fea 2 ore feat a

(2) Ataf at arden i artaret ae Hdter aeare arr fafatee Peo set

eascraey - ca fare wart eq Ae ere Pear oat & fH teat at ardent Ft ofan F ets aca aT.
tae, aah, THT, HT, TH TAT TATE oer TST 21

13, WealH ceaTat F aT eae aa. ate ars ate afataas ar ea fraat & afte Fela acer at feet
ore Al SEATAT AAT AT WeTa HAT S AT VA sears aT sas ates aaa F erry aa aerw Feu
are az afe are F ae ora oar & fH Tar eearast Slt ar waa 2 a Sas eg Ta aes aT a
aeanta aveTers Brave At ST aR SI

14. Sata Aa BelTaT a Tat B.- Hels Tea sa Paat aes aos Hrs ar Pea He oq Peet at
fran, wife ose, caettht Peres ar fara A aera a aa S az AALS ar aoa oft ae aa a1

15. wararagan AT we areas Ft aizer.- ea faat & areata aareages ar feearagas For a feo a art
are Fa AHR AT UST ATS aT SHY A ret Peet At rhe fe aE are, afters ar
ara fafa artaret vet Ft sroafhi
16. Fa Hae ara ae fas ary aeh.- Frere ara (faae soa) aferfra, 2015 (2015 Ft 4.11) Fr
apt | tatters arre arat oz Ft Fara ay wet SET
17. faxea ate arated - (1) Bre ara faa, 2012 Ft wfaeref atett arc fret wager facta At ort
2
(2) saat facaa & ara eu ft stare ara Fae, 2012 Ft ofeeaelf atett are ret & atest fear war ar fT
ws Peet ft artaré at at ca Porat & gacett wraarat & etefa Pear war AAA STMT TAT TAT aT
fra, 2012 Ft wfeteceff aret are sew tert & stenta arated ofan art cestt site sre sate afr
ares ard ea frat & caqedt saa & stata er what wes ort aT teat

[or. 4. 11022/01/2015-40-IIT]

faae aia, Aa aT
MINISTRY OF COAL
NOTIFICATION
New Delhi, the 13th July, 2017

G.S.R. 877(E).—_WHEREAS, the Central Government had notified the Auction by Competitive
Bidding of Coal Mines Rules, 2012 on 2"! February, 2012 in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of
sub-section (2) of section 13 of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (No. 67 of
1957), as amended from time to time, for specifying the terms and conditions of auction by competitive
bidding for selection of the company under section 11A of the Mines and Minerals (Development and
Regulation) Act, 1957 (No. 67 of 1957) and related matters thereto;

AND WHEREAS, section 11A and clause (d) of sub-section (2) of section 13 of the Mines and
Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (No. 67 of 1957) has been amended by the Part B of
Schedule IV of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 (No. 11 of 2015) which necessitated
amendments in the Auction by Competitive Bidding of Coal Mines Rules, 2012;
12 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part II—SEC. 3(i)]

NOW, THEREFORE, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 13 and clause
(d) of sub-section (2) of section 13 of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (No.
67 of 1957) Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:—

CHAPTER I : SHORT TITLE AND COMMENCEMENT

1. Short title and commencement.—(1) These rules may be called the Coal Blocks Allocation Rules,
2017.

 (2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
 2. Definitions.—(1) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,—
(a) “Act” means the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (No. 67 of 1957);
(b) “affiliate” with respect to any person shall mean any other person which, directly or indirectly;-
(i) controls such person; or
(ii) is controlled by such person; or
(iii) is controlled by the same person who, directly or indirectly, controls such person; or
(iv) is an associate company of such person;

Explanation.—for the purpose of this clause, "associate company" shall have the same meaning
assigned to it in sub-section (6) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (No. 18 of 2013);

(c) “allocation” means allotment and auction referred together;

(d) “allotment” means allotment of coal blocks referred to in clause (a) and (b) of the proviso to section
11A of the Act;

(e) “allocation order” means the allocation order referred to in sub-rule (5) of rule 8;

(f) “allotment document” means the document referred to in sub-rule (1) of rule 6;

(g) “auction” means public auction of coal blocks under sub-section (1) of section 11A of the Act;

(h) “bidder” means a company or corporation which participate in auction of coal blocks;

(i) “block dossier” means the block dossier as referred to in sub-rule (1) of rule 4;

(j) “ceiling price” means the price fixed by the Central Government for a coal block which is to be

allocated by way of reverse auction;

(k) “coal” includes anthracite, bituminous, lignite, peat, coking coal, coke and any other form of
carbonaceous matter sold or marketed as coal;

0) “coal block” means an area containing coal which has been identified in accordance with clause (a) of
sub-rule (1) of rule 3;

(m) “coal linkage” means a contract entered between coal producing Government company or corporation
and consumer for supply of coal in accordance with the terms and conditions of the relevant fuel
supply agreement;

(n) “control” shall include the right to appoint majority of the directors or to control the management or
policy decisions exercisable by a person or persons acting individually or in concert, directly or
indirectly, including by virtue of their shareholding or management rights or shareholders agreements
or voting agreements or in any other manner;

(0) “floor price” means the price fixed by the Central Government for a coal block which is to be
allocated by way of forward auction;

(p) “forward auction” means the method of auction where the bidders shall be required to successively
quote the bid higher than the floor price, subject to such conditions as may be specified in the tender
document;
[MFT ave 3(i)] ARG UST: START 13

(q)
(x)

0)

(u)
(vy)
(w)

(x)

(y)
(z)
(za)
(zb)
(zc)

(zd)

(2)

“group company” means a company which is an affiliate of another company;

“infrastructure special purpose vehicle” means an entity incorporated by the nodal agency designated
by the Central Government for the purposes of Ultra Mega Power Projects and shall —

(i) hold the land required for the construction of the Ultra Mega Power Project and grant the said
land under lease or licence to the operating special purpose vehicle;

(ii) hold the allocation of the domestic captive coal block and grant the mining, development and
operation rights of the said domestic captive coal block to the operating special purpose vehicle.

 “operating special purpose vehicle” means an entity incorporated by the nodal agency designated by
the Central Government for the purpose of an Ultra Mega Power Project and shall —

(i) _ be transferred to the awardee of an Ultra Mega Power Project on the basis of competitive bids
for tariff for the execution of the Ultra Mega Power Projects;

(ii) execute the power purchase agreement with the distribution licensees for execution of the Ultra
Mega Power Project;

(iii) hold the land required for the construction of the Ultra Mega Power Project on lease basis
acquired in the name of infrastructure special purpose vehicle; act as a mine development operator of
the captive coal mine allocated to the infrastructure special purpose vehicle.

 “person” shall include any company or association or body of individuals, whether incorporated or
not;

“preferred allottee” means the preferred allottee as referred to in sub-rule (8) of rule 6;
“preferred bidder” means the preferred bidder as referred to in sub-rule (6) of rule 5;

“reverse auction” means the method of auction where the bidders shall be required to successively
quote the bid lower than the ceiling price, subject to such conditions as may be specified in the tender
document;

“reserve price” means the price fixed by the Central Government for a coal block allocated by way of
allotment or by way of reverse auction;

“successful allocatee” means successful bidder and successful allottee referred together;
“successful allottee” means the successful allottee as referred to in sub-rule (9) of rule 6;
“successful bidder” means the successful bidder as referred to in sub-rule (8) of rule 5;
“tender document” means the tender document as referred to in sub-rule (1) of rule 5;

“Ultra Mega Power Project” shall mean a power project based on supercritical coal thermal
technology or more efficient technology, with installed capacity of 3960 Mega Watt (MW) or above
or such other capacity as may be stipulated by the Central Government, from which power
procurement is tied up by procurers in more than one State or Union Territory, through tariff based
competitive bidding initiated through a Central Government initiative under the Guidelines for
Determination of Tariff Through Transparent Process of Bidding for Procurement of Power from
Ultra Mega Power Projects notified by Central Government under section 63 of the Electricity Act,
2003 (No. 36 of 2003); and

the expressions “generating station” and “captive generating plant” shall have the meanings assigned
to them in the Electricity Act, 2003 (No. 36 of 2003).

 Words and expressions used herein but not defined and defined in the Act shall have the meaning

respectively assigned to them in the Act.
 14 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part II—SEC. 3(i)]

CHAPTER II: AUCTION AND ALLOTMENT PROCESS

3. Allocation process.— (1) In connection with the allocation of coal blocks the Central Government
shall —

(a) identify the coal blocks for allocation as per the standard technical parameters;

(b) specify the manner of allocation through —

(i) auction; or

(ii) allotment to Government Company or corporation under clause (a) of the proviso to section
11A of the Act; or

(iii) allotment to a company or corporation under clause (b) of the proviso to section 11A of the
Act;

(c) specify purpose of allocation of the coal blocks including, but not limited to, own consumption or for
sale;

Explanation— Own consumption may include consumption of coal in the end uses such as
production of iron and steel; generation of electricity through generating station; generation of
electricity through captive generating plant; production of cement; production of fertilizers;
production of syn-gas through coal gasification; or any other end use as the Central Government may,
by notification in the Official Gazette, specify:

Provided that in case the coal block is to be allocated for the purpose of own consumption, the Central
Government may combine one or more end uses as specified under this sub-rule.

 (d) specify broad parameters for conducting allotment or auction including by way of forward auction or
reverse auction;

(e) prepare block dossier for each coal block as specified in rule 4; and

(f) any other matter that the Central Government may deem expedient in accordance with the Act or

these rules.

 (2) The Central Government may constitute one or more committees consisting of members from the
Ministry of Coal, other ministries or departments in the Government of India and such experts as may be
deemed expedient for making recommendations to the Central Government for the purposes of sub-rule (1) of
rule 3.

(3) Pursuant to the process undertaken in accordance with sub-rule (1) of rule 3, the Central Government
shall conduct the auction process in accordance with the provisions of rule 5 or the allotment process in
accordance with rule 6 or rule 7, as the case may be.

 4. Block Dossier.— (1) The Central Government shall prepare a written dossier that is, the block
dossier for each coal block, based on the information available with the Central Government, which may
include,—

(a) particulars of the coal block, including the geographical area, coal reserves and other geological
information, as available;

(b) _ particulars of reconnaissance operations, prospecting operations or mining operations, as may be
applicable, conducted earlier by any person in reference to the coal block.

 (2) The Central Government may update the block dossier based on additional information, if any.

 5. Auction.— (1) In respect of coal blocks, for which the Central Government has specified auction
under clause (b) of sub-rule (1) of rule 3, the Central Government shall prepare a document for the auction
process, that is, the tender document.

 (2) Each tender document may include such information as the Central Government may consider
expedient for the purposes of auction including,—

(a) _ the block dossier containing particulars of the coal block;
[MFT ave 3(i)] ARG UST: START 15

(b) purpose of allocation of the coal blocks including, but not limited to, own consumption or for
sale;

(c) | the terms and conditions associated with the public auction, including the floor price in case of
forward auction or the ceiling price in case of reverse auction, reserve price in case of reverse
auction, eligibility conditions, the process of conduct of auction and other related information;

(d) _ the request for proposal;

(e) specimen of agreements proposed to be entered into with the successful bidder as specified in
sub-rule (1) of rule 8.

(3) The participants in the auction process shall be required to make payment of non-refundable fee of
five lakh rupees for each coal block.

 (4) The Central Government shall issue a public notice for the auction in at least one Hindi and one
English language national newspaper and such public notice shall specify the manner in which the tender
document shall be obtained.

 (5) The Central Government shall comply with the following procedure while conducting auction,
namely:—

(a) Electronic auction— The process of auction of coal blocks shall be conducted through
electronic auction, in accordance with the Act, these rules, the tender document and orders issued
by the Central Government, if any.

(b) Auction process. — (A) The auction process shall be a two stage process comprising of—
(i) technical bid; and
(ii) financial bid.

 (B) The technical bid shall be for the purpose of qualification and the financial bid shall be for the
purpose of determination of the successful bidder.

 (C) The financial bid may be divided into such sub-stages or rounds as may be deemed expedient
by the Central Government.

 (c)  Eligibility— The Central Government shall specify the applicable eligibility conditions for
participation in auction in the tender document and the same may include,—

(i) technical and financial qualifications of the participants in the auction;
(ii) compliance with the procedure specified for the auction process; and
(iii) requirement to provide bid security in the form of bank guarantee.

 (d) The Central Government may constitute a committee consisting of members from the Ministry of
Coal, other ministries or departments of Central Government and such technical experts from
various fields as may be deemed expedient for making recommendations to the Central
Government for the purposes of determining technical and financial eligibility of the bidders.

 (e) In case the coal block is specified for auction for the purpose of own consumption, then the
capacity of the end use project for which a bidder is bidding shall be in such proportion to the
capacity of coal block as may be specified.

 (f) The Central Government may also specify the maximum number of coal blocks or amount of coal
reserves or both that may be allocated to a company or corporation or its subsidiary or parent
company or associate companies or group companies or its affiliate.

 (6) Upon completion of the auction process, the preferred bidder shall be declared on the basis of the
result of auction.

 (7) The Central Government may, after such scrutiny of the auction conducted as may be deemed
expedient, declare the preferred bidder to be the successful bidder for the coal block or may cancel the auction
process of the coal block.
 16 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part II—SEC. 3(i)]

(8) In case the coal block is specified for the purpose of own consumption and a bidder having a coal
linkage becomes the successful bidder, then the entitlement to receive coal pursuant to such coal linkage for
the end use plant on the basis of which it became a successful bidder may be reduced on such basis as may be
specified by the Central Government.

 6. Allotment.— (1) In respect of coal blocks, for which the Central Government has specified allotment
to Government company or corporation under sub-clause (ii) of clause (b) of sub-rule (1) of rule 3, the Central
Government shall prepare a document for the allotment process, that is, the allotment document.

 (2) Each allotment document may include such information as the Central Government may consider
expedient for the purposes of allotment including,—

(a) _ the block dossier containing particulars of the coal block;
(b) purpose of allotment of the coal blocks including, but not limited to, own consumption or for sale;

(c) the terms and conditions associated with the allotment, including the reserve price, eligibility
conditions, procedure for making application for al lotment, the process of conduct of allotment
and other related information:

Provided that in case coal block whose mining plan has not been prepared, the Central
Government may specify the reserve price after the allotment of coal block and preparation of
mining plan for such mine; and the successful allottee shall furnish an undertaking as a part of the
agreement, as specified in sub-rule (1) of rule 8, to pay the reserve price within the specified time,
as may be specified by the Central Government.

 (d) specimen of agreements proposed to be entered into with the successful allottee as specified in
sub-rule (1) of rule 8.

(3) The Central Government shall issue a public notice for the allotment in at least one Hindi and one
English language national newspaper and such public notice shall specify the manner in which the allotment
document shall be obtained on the basis of which an applicant will submit the application for allotment.

 (4) The allotment document shall specify the norms for allotment and such norms may include the
following, namely:-

(a) progress of development of coal blocks by the applicant in the past, if any;
(b) financial details of the applicant, including the net-worth and turnover;
(c) technical capabilities of the applicant and the technology proposed to be used for mining;
(d) demand-supply gap;
(e) assessment of requirements of the State;
(f) in case of utilisation of the coal for own consumption,—
(i) state of preparedness of the end use facility;
(ii) proximity of the end use facility to the relevant coal block;

(iii) in case the purpose of allotment of coal block is specified as consumption of coal in
generation of electricity through generating station, the per-capita power availability in
the State of the applicant company.

 (g) The Central Government may also specify the maximum number of coal blocks or amount of coal
reserves or both that may be allocated to a company or corporation or its subsidiary or associate
companies.

 (5) In case the coal block is specified for the purpose of own consumption and an applicant having a coal
linkage becomes the successful allottee, then the entitlement to receive coal pursuant to such coal linkage for
the end use plant on the basis of which it became a successful allottee may be reduced on such basis as may be
specified by the Central Government.
 [MFT ave 3(i)] ARG UST: START 17

(6) The Central Government shall constitute a committee consisting of an officer not below the rank of
Joint Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Coal as chairperson, such other members from
various Ministries and departments of the Central Government and such technical experts from various fields
as it may deem fit for considering the applications received and assessing the eligibility of the applicants
based on the criteria specified in the allotment document.

 (7) The Committee may, if considered necessary for the purpose of sub-rule (6), invite representative of
the State Government where the coal block is located;

(8) The Committee after considering the applications received and assessing the eligibility of the
applicants based on the criteria specified in the allotment document shall submit its recommendation to the
Central Government specifying the name of preferred allottee selected by it from amongst the applicants
alongwith the reasons for such selection.

 (9) The Central Government may, after such scrutiny of the allotment conducted, as may be deemed
expedient, declare the preferred allottee to be the successful allottee for the coal block or may cancel the
allotment process of the coal block.

 (10) The Central Government may in public interest and for the reasons to be recorded in writing, relax
any of the provisions of this rule for the allotment of a coal block to:

(i) a Government company or corporation owned, managed or controlled by the Central Government,
or

(ii) a Government company or corporation for utilisation of coal in the linked power project to be
awarded on the basis of competitive bid for tariff (including Ultra Mega Power Project):

Provided that in case of allotment of a coal block to a Government company or corporation for
utilisation of coal in the linked power project to be awarded on the basis of competitive bid for tariff
(including Ultra Mega Power Project), the Central Government shall first issue an in-principle allotment letter
for such coal block to such Government company or corporation recommended by the Government of India in
the Ministry of Power before the competitive bidding for tariff and thereafter on successful award of power
project, the final allotment order shall be issued in accordance with the process specified in the rule 8.

 7. Allotment on the basis of tariff based competitive bidding for power projects.—(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in rules 5 or 6, the Central Government may in accordance with the
clause (b) of the proviso to section 11A of the Act, allot any coal block which has been specified by the
Central Government for allotment under sub-clause (iii) of clause (b) of sub-rule (1) of rule 3, to any company
or corporation that has been awarded a power project on the basis of competitive bids for tariff (including
Ultra Mega Power Projects) and recommended for such allotment by the Government of India in the Ministry
of Power, on such terms and conditions as the Central Government may deem expedient.

 8. Procedure after declaration of successful bidder or successful allottee.—(1) The successful bidder
declared in accordance with the provisions of rule 5 or the successful allottee declared in accordance with the
provision of rule 6 or rule 7, that is, the successful allocatee shall enter into an agreement with the Central
Government wherein the terms and conditions of the allocation shall be specified and which shall be
terminated in accordance with sub-rule (7).

 (2) In case of allotment under rule 6, the agreement with successful allottee shall contain inter-alia,
following conditions, namely:—

(i) | The successful allottee shall utilise the coal for the specified purpose only for which the coal
block has been allocated.

 (ii) In case the coal block is allotted for the purpose of own consumption, if the allottee washes coal
obtained from the coal block, then the middlings, rejects, tailings, jhama or any other type of coal
obtained on washing, which cannot be utilised for the purpose for which the coal block has been
allocated, shall be sold or disposed of by the successful allottee only with the prior approval of the
Coal Controller’s Organisation.

 (iii) _ In case coal block is allotted for purpose of sale of coal, then the coal produced from the coal
block shall be sold or distributed through a non-discriminatory, reasonable and transparent
mechanism.
 18

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part II—SEC. 3(i)]

(iv)

(vy)

(vi)

(vii)

(viii)

(ix)

(x)

(xi)

(3)

 In case the purpose of allotment of coal block is specified as consumption of coal in generation of
electricity through generating station, the allottee shall utilise coal for the power plants owned by
it for which power purchase agreement had been signed as per the prevailing policy issued by the
Central Government from time to time.

 The production of coal shall be as per the approved mining plan and the terms and conditions of
the mining lease.

 The allocatee Company shall be responsible for development of coal block as per the milestones
as specified in the agreement and approved mining plan.

 No company other than a Government company or corporation shall hold more than twenty-six
per cent of the paid-up share capital in the successful allottee either directly or through any of its
subsidiary company or associate company.

 The allocatee company shall file such periodical return, as may be specified, regarding
distribution and utilisation of coal to the Coal Controller and any other agency authorized by the
Central Government or the State Government:

 Provided that in case the allotment is made under sub-rule (10) of rule 6 to a Government
company or corporation for utilisation of coal in the linked power project awarded on the basis of
competitive bid for tariff (including Ultra Mega Power Project), periodical return shall be filed by
the operating special purpose vehicle after award of power project on the basis of competitive
bidding in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Central Government in the Ministry of
Power.

 In case the coal block is to be developed through a mine developer and operator, the selection of
such mine developer and operator shall be through a competitive bidding process and the
successful allocatee shall inform the Central Government and the State Government about the
engagement of the mine developer and operator and the terms and conditions of such engagement,
as soon as it is finalised.

 The successful allottee shall ensure that the criteria of bidding for engagement of mine developer
and operator is not linked to the notified price of the Coal India Limited.

 The mine developer and operator shall maintain all records required to be maintained and shall
make available such records for inspection to the successful allottee, the State Government and
the Central Government.

 In case of allotment under rule 7, the agreement with the successful allottee shall contain, inter alia,

the conditions contained in clause (i), (ii), (iv), (v), (vi) and (viii) of sub-rule (2) of rule 8.

(4)

 The successful allocatee shall be required to provide a performance bank guarantee in favour of the

Central Government for such amount and period as may be specified by the Central Government and such
performance bank guarantee shall, inter alia, provide for the following, namely:—

@
(ii)

(iii)

 (5)

it shall be unconditional and irrevocable;

it shall be linked with the milestones for the development of the coal block as may be specified by
the Central Government; and

upon invocation of the performance bank guarantee, the payment should be made immediately
without any demur, reservation, caveat, protest or recourse:

Provided that in case the allotment is made under sub-rule (10) of rule 6 to a Government
company or corporation for utilisation of coal in the linked power project to be awarded on the
basis of competitive bid for tariff (including Ultra Mega Power Project), the performance Bank
Guarantee shall be provided by the operating special purpose vehicle on behalf of the successful
allocatee after award of power project on the basis of competitive bidding in accordance with
guidelines issued by the Central Government in the Ministry of Power.

 Upon entering of the agreement as specified in sub-rule (1) and (2) and providing performance bank

guarantee as specified in sub-rule (3), the successful allocatee shall be entitled to receive an allocation order
from the Central Government in respect of the coal block for which it was declared successful allocatee.
 [MFT ave 3(i)] ARG UST: START 19

(6) Issuance of allocation order shall be conclusive evidence that all the requirements of section 11A of
the Act and these rules have been complied with in respect of the selection of successful allocatee and the
successful allocatee shall be entitled for grant of prospecting licence or mining lease in respect of the relevant
coal block from the State Government in accordance with sub-section (3) of section 11A of the Act.

 (7) The terms and conditions of the agreement as specified in sub-rule (1) and (2) or  (3) of this rule shall
be included in terms and conditions of the mining lease for the coal block alongwith any other terms and
conditions that the Central Government or the State Government shall deem fit under the mineral concession
rules and upon grant of the mining lease, the agreement as specified in sub-rule (1) and (2) or (3) of this rule
shall stand terminated.

 (8) The State Government concerned may, upon grant of mining lease, require the successful allocatee to
provide a performance bank guarantee in its favour for ensuring the production of coal as per the mining plan:

Provided that in case the allotment is made under sub-rule (10) of rule 6 to a Government company or
corporation for utilisation of coal in the linked power project to be awarded on the basis of competitive bid for
tariff (including Ultra Mega Power Project), the performance bank guarantee shall be provided by the
operating special purpose vehicle on behalf of the successful allocatee after award of power project on the
basis of competitive bidding in accordance with guidelines issued by the Central Government in the Ministry
of Power.

 (9) The performance bank guarantee submitted under sub-rule (4) shall be returned to the successful
allocatee after submission of performance bank guarantee under sub-rule (8) or after 60 days of termination of
the agreement as specified in sub-rule (1) and (2), whichever is earlier.

 (10) ‘The allocation order shall be cancelled by the Central Government, inter alia, in the following
circumstances, namely:—

(a) in case of breach of terms of the agreement entered under the provisions of sub-rule (1) and (2);
(b) misrepresentation of facts by the successful allocatee;

(c) violation of the provisions of the Act and rules framed under the Act;

(d) in the event of cancellation of mining lease;

(e) on recommendation of the State Government concerned in the event of breach of terms and
conditions of mining lease; or

(f) in the opinion of the Central Government, for the reasons to be recorded in writing, it is expedient
in public interest to terminate the allocation.

 9. Re-auction and re-allotment.— (1) On cancellation of auction process or allotment process pursuant
to rule 5, rule 6 or rule 7, as the case may be, on account of any reason whatsoever, the Central Government
shall have the power to initiate fresh process of auction or allotment of the coal block, or re-initiate entire
allocation process as specified in rule 3.

CHAPTER III: MISCELLANEOUS

10. Arrangements for optimal utilisation of coal blocks.— (1) In case the coal block is allocated for the
purpose of own consumption, the successful allocatee or coal linkage holder shall, with the prior approval of
the Central Government, be entitled to enter into certain agreements or arrangements with other successful
allocatee or coal linkage holder, as the case may be, for optimum utilisation of coal block for the same
purpose in the public interest and to achieve cost efficiencies.

 (2) A successful allocatee or a coal linkage holder proposing to enter into any agreements or arrangements
referred to in sub-rule (1) shall make an application to the Central Government in writing.

 (3) The application referred to in sub-rule (2) shall include the complete particulars of the following, namely:—
(a) parties to the proposed agreements or arrangements;
(b) the proposed agreements or arrangements;

(c) the manner in which such agreements or arrangements would achieve optimal utilisation of coal
blocks and cost efficiencies; and

(d) details of coal linkages of the parties, if any.
20 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part II—SEC. 3(i)]

(4) Before applying, parties shall ensure that all parties to the arrangement or agreement are otherwise
eligible for the allocation of the coal block or grant of coal linkage, as the case may be, which are subject
matter of such agreement or arrangement.

 (5) The Central Government may seek such further information regarding the proposed agreement or
arrangements as it may deem fit.

 (6) The Central Government may after such investigation as may, in its opinion be necessary, by an order in
writing, grant its approval or reject the proposed agreement or arrangements, in whole or in part.

 (7) The Central Government while granting its approval may impose any condition which shall be binding on
the parties to such agreement or arrangement.

 (8) Upon execution of such agreement or arrangement, the party carrying out the mining operations in the coal
block or receiving coal under coal linkage shall bear the liabilities in relation to such coal block or coal
linkage.

 (9) Upon execution of such agreements or arrangements, a certified copy of the same shall be deposited with
the Central Government or such other agency or department as may be specified by the Central Government,
within fifteen business days of such execution.

 (10) Nothing in this rule shall apply to the coal block allotted under sub-rule (10) of rule 6 for utilisation of
coal in the linked power project awarded on the basis of competitive bid for tariff (including Ultra Mega
Power Project) and to the coal block allotted under rule 7.

11. Utilisation of coal for any other plant of the successful allocatee— In case the coal block is
allocated for the purpose of own consumption, a successful allocatee may use the coal mined from a particular
coal block for the same purpose in any of its plants or plant of its subsidiary or holding company, with a prior
intimation to the Central Government in writing:

Provided that in case of allotment, a successful allottee may also utilise coal from the coal block
allotted for the purpose of own consumption, in the plants of its joint venture company or corporation formed
with other government companies or corporations where the successful allottee company has majority
shareholding in the joint venture company or corporation.

 (2) The intimation referred in sub-rule (1) shall be provided at least thirty business days prior to the intended
date of such utilisation.

 (3) The Central Government may seek further information regarding such utilisation as it may deem fit and
may impose such terms and conditions as may be found necessary.

 (4) Nothing in this rule shall apply to the coal block allotted under sub-rule (10) of rule 6 for utilisation of coal
in the linked power project awarded on the basis of competitive bid for tariff (including Ultra Mega Power
Project) and to the coal block allotted under rule 7.

12. Proceeds of auction or allotment.— (1) The proceeds of the auction or allotment, as the case may
be, shall be deposited by the successful allocatee to the State Government concerned where the coal block is
located in the manner as may be specified by the State Government with intimation to the Central
Government.

 (2) The constituents of proceeds of auction or allotment shall be specified by the Central Government.

 Explanation.—For the purposes of this rule, it is hereby clarified that proceeds for auction or
allotment excludes any royalty, levy, cess, tax, duties, or charges imposed by Central Government, State
Government or local Government, as the case may be.

 13. Affidavit to accompany each document. — If any person submits or produces any document to the
Central Government or any authority under the Act or these rules, such document shall be accompanied by an
affidavit regarding its genuineness and if it is discovered subsequently that such document is false or
incorrect, he shall be liable for penal action under the law for the time being in force.

 14. Central Government may seek assistance. — The Central Government may, for the purpose of
discharging its functions under these rules, seek assistance of any departments, authorities, agencies, technical
experts or government companies or corporations and may also constitute committees.
 [art Have 3(i)] ARG UST: START 21

15. Protection of action taken in good faith No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie
against the Central Government, or State Government or any person acting on their behalf, in respect of
anything which is done or intended to be done in good faith under these rule.

 16. Rules not to apply on certain coal mines. — Nothing in these rules shall apply to coal mines listed in
Schedule I of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 (No. 11 of 2015).

 17. Repeal and savings—— (1) The Auction by Competitive Bidding of Coal Mines Rules, 2012 are
hereby repealed.

 (2) Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the Auction by Competitive
Bidding of Coal Mines Rules, 2012, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding
provisions of these rules and any process of allocation pending under the said Auction by Competitive
Bidding of Coal Mines Rules, 2012 shall continue and after the final allocation of the coal block the remaining
procedure and conditions under the corresponding provisions of these rules shall be applicable.

 [F. No. 11022/01/2015-CA-III]
VIVEK BHARADWAJ, Jt. Secy.

 Digitall id by RAKESH SUKUL
RAKESH SUKUL Date: 2017071 3 a :45:56 +05'30'

Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054.
 freht &. At-uet- 33004/99 REGD. No. D. L.-33004/99

Che Gazette of India

Ar. SY. Te. -31.-04102021-230139
CG-DL-E-04102021-230139

HATATLT
EXTRAORDINARY
ATT Ll—ats 3—3q-avs (i)
PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (i)

siferare & sear fer
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

a. 575] are Pavel, aTTAaT, TATA 4, 2021 arias 12, 1943
No. 575] NEW DELHI, MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2021/ASVINA 12, 1943
BTA FATT

ae facet, 1 arqax, 2021

aT. FY. 717 (A) Pears ATR, Te aire aterot (feeare site fataerrs) aferfrra, 1957 (1957 ar
67) At Are 13 BIT Veet ora aT TAT Het SU atte Rare far, 1960 ar site Aattart HA Fh fore
eafatad faa sarc @, wate:

1. aferer ara site wreat.—(1) St Frat ar aferea aa aft Rear (aetters) fA, 2021 |
(2) ea fraat F aera sodas & fara, F Sa Ts H peprerst Ft aS HT Tact ST |

2. aft fared fram, 1960 (fra sae see asa Wet Fara Her Ta Z) H aa 2 & sataa (1)
as (vii) & 991d Featfad Ss staearhte ear se, AaTa:--

(vii) “art art aPoarera” & cet at a atest ott & faenied, Sears, HAT AT QCA FH ILA ITT
art orepicee saree F pet, aetepe ar araeaters area ahr = 5’

3. Wet raat F fram 24a % aearg Peaterfad Pare ataearhte Prat are, sear:
“247. arardt Hataat ar feTat at Tart Paw ae aaa Te ar rater —

(1) aft Parra (aettert) Fa, 2021 rest ae aT Sah Tea Braet aT fears] & fers aH HIT
an fare at vara Paw ae at art Te 50 ae ar erates & fore Shr |

5613 GI/2021 (1)
2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [ParT II—SEc. 3(i)]

(2) afast Rarra (aeite) Fora, 2021 & ore WT Bre ar fermare]e & fer Peet aearst jot ar
fora & fafea ar sa sect aft fae Gat oe 50 at & feu ar 31 ard, 2030 am, saat a aT ot
agareadt at, weed Rau we aaa TTT |

(3) Usa ara, Fa ase F Gas Tesh aaa A HH A ae dhe are es Peet aca sot ar ere art
feo ae ares oe afar oe Bt Ue aaa A fe ae AT site safe > foro aareaft:

weg asa aeare fates aaa ata & gear faeare & fore aretaet HT BT ae He THAT:

Wed Fe ate Pe Peet arent aot ar fre at aera 7S Bh starr ar fears vet vara ear sear ST PAfaar
% era a sata Ft Ts SI

(4) afe usa aca are safaa (3) F sfeafer aaa fat aaa TE * fears & fore fear wat Fe
aaa Teh paar at ate & ys fserar set Sra @, TT Sat Ts AY rakes Sa Ie MST ATH ST ATS
afte feu ort ae faege gs aaett sreatt

(5) aearet at ar Fara are aaa We & artwor & few feu ae ast araaa a are aie aftr (f art
are fafterrt) dettert atferfra, 2021(2021 ar 16) & area Ft arta ae afta 4, Gat ae AY oats
faeare & fore avatar aS TUT site SaPae (3) Saat arene fare SUT 1” |

4. Het Frere & frre 27  aeare Preaferfers are stasearite Pear sear , erarta:--

“27h, ATE at H TSTaTT are HITS AT fermaTee * awa At Af —(1) Fre vetard et aay WaT
fern erat ar ferarse ar Soart Pear ara Z, area a dag Ues-get aaa AT aeterrat HT GT HAH ISAT
Peet facta act # searfed rarer ar feraree Ft arer 8 Ft Srerret (5) & ateftt TIT Aga Het ATAT | TT
afeare aa arret ar feraree faa Fe THAT |

easdtecy 1.—sa fae & yates & fer ae cace Par sre & Pe Pht facia ad & fre aa Hg
ae aay Ft ater sa facie ae ar sees Peet ar F Sat Aas arr Soa eo Te arr aT feraree Ft
areafae atat ent |

ersdtaet 2.—se faa & water & feo series, faaha, te-e aas 4 tag Seat feu a ara aT
forage Ft arar att atta areata afeftaa cea dara a Prato ara & afar arate aT
sre

ersdtacr 3.—arrferce, aargy at refer ar fama ca faa are frdfaa vet eT |

(2) art 8 At Stare (5)  aqare Pashia Frat ar feraree Ft Arar & fore yerard, cea acHe aT
carrer ar dara aed ane afatran Ft att age F ae fatafece afahers car ar aera HOT, GT
Bren afta arssert ait cede after ait are ar carfes aT Aart sea arth Fars ar fafear searast
aaa frat fiftan a farifece dara, wet wet ary at, & afafera ert 1

(3) vatardt oF facts at F fare au fame fore Pret facie at Ft aaa ws are & aftae arafafece
wife, arreart Hares, Bre Papa AST SAT AST AHI BT TST FA TAT FETT HAT |

(4) Peet eoeh ar fore at arated arr At erat & sree ar fewer aqara set errr, Rares thew & far
afearttranr atett & aac oe ora Rare (Bree etentea areer Tar oraz gtsrae aff 8) vara Feu ae SF 1”
ersdteecr.—ea faa watt ® few ae eae Pear oat & fH za fram F aor fafafece arrer aT
feratee ® fama & fer soar het are BH aT Geral arr few ae aefera Hare H fafea asa stat
ate art Horvat Wester BT Tae Tet VT |
 [ATT are 3(i)] WT BT UTA: AATATOT 3

5. yer raat &h rare 28h eara ae Peeters fae car aM, stat:

“28, Tet ar aT. —(1) Set aa Te F PRoorad At aréha a at ae & aftae Scares ate ToT west set
SA Sl AT SCS AT TTT ITT STA BH TSA at ae AY art sates * few AAres St WAT ST, GAT TET TAT
feafe ve 2 froored At aretha & ar Scares ate Toor Ft ares A at ae At rahe he pears Te aT ST
STUIT |

2) Gert TS eT STAT UST aa are eT feo ae apeet F aTeaa a afsterfed frat sro six
aera at aft agit fear aT |

3) wat Terardt @ert arqarfes & Roares at aretha & at ae At rates] eftae Scares ae ToT TT HT
F aeras S aT Sa aa A are BH HITT A Teas AT TI AAT ST TAT Z, AS UST AH HT ST
at ag ft arate & aarara a we & pe dts are Geet Seer are ate Hes eT Vat at ae AT aah Br UH
at & arafern fh arta art raher TH Sey HT ALT HLT BU WH AIST TET HT AAT:

Wed Tet devas sacra fara wae fae aaa Hed FH HT Tea & Aer at aw Ft wares ae aT
Seared Sf ATTA |

4) sara (3) ) aera stan Petites fates Pear are —

(3) % setts Paw re wear area ara ST aT ea FT he Aart STH |

) Saar
(6) Usa aca, aaa Ft THe awed arg, STAT (3) sels Feo ae arses AT ort Ft aréta &
ar oa atta 4, reat after ver aera Sra St aT, sae SF GT fh Tear St, a dhe are Ft safes &
aftax War aaa HT Sars HTS ET aT ari Ha gu TE ara aa Hh:

 eq CAT Shs Tal Seas BAe ToT ea F aH SA Te aT UH ae few aere TU safe  ftae Seared
ate door Tt Tat HF TAA AT STAT ST TTT:

 Wed ae ate Pe tar fears A at aah Shea UH are & afer et vars At ST |

(7) asa aeare Tar area afaferfaar wer ar art wer F tae fea & eftac soften (2) & adie
afafefad at softs (6) * aeftt aro area stra ferert area, arafafece sofas aie ara
Hares at aghast BOT 11

6. at fara & fara 285 ar are rar STAT |

7. Her Fara & fare 64 hearst ox freaferfed farm car sree, seat:

“64a Teen F sett cet eu attat & are H cae H Aaa TATA HEAT aH ATA HAT TET AT
faz aT aret Sa Tee at fare Fare faa aware aaen attra at frags ae tae C*"n
writer ft srestt:

 Weg waedt ve oe Pau ae ae Tae ST aT So aT ey arf”
8. Wer Prenat H, fers 64a ar ire Peat TTT |
9, Wa fant Ht, aga | a, sea a} garg Patera ver at ataseartte fear area, state :-
4 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

‘TeT¢
[frre 27%, safer (3) 2a]
ae: STOTT
fait ad 1 AF, 20... F 31 ATH, 20... Th

aar Hy,

(i) avafafes srfereret
arrea FATT
orat wart, te feeett

(ii) Beret aa
area aae Aor eT TATA
1, ratte area tele,
are fadt, St ft SF are
areata, tft arrt-700001.

 (iii) sa ATE
(HrraT feraTSe aT STATS, TIT Siz TeTH)
(ca & ofa Ft ears)

ort a. SFT

 [art I -avs 3(i)]

FIRT FT UST: TATATRT

3. Teare-earah HT ATH BAe TT (MHeRT a. Ae S-Fet HATA) «

Weareearat aT ATH

aT

rear

Ut

fia ats

thera a.

eat

Hr a.

Weare ar Used Haars

arate Freer

aftaat

yaa

4. Aofrare afte Scares, = Zt ater, S Att saa, faws ahs |

ferarge Soft | wie ae | SeaTeT satan | gat fatta ara | wie ae

area | Reb STAT STITT were og
(arte fear CT
7a)

aa

aT:

5. Rel War aie rate & fore wars aware :

fearee/ | voor st weapfa | | are water & fore fata & few

arr at | (refs | aAzarz/ aefadt jaar |faer jaar jar | we

art Paratt fatter | arart ral arth.
 fama aay | ceftar Hit (0%) Wea
FACT AT ATE | shear ft wa St (0)
STAT AT Ua HH
fata gem ¢)

 Hat aT:

HH afe ue a ofa aaear ST aot & Saft He

fear: ara cart ar ae far Yer aT aa SAT aaa & — Store Ft ofaerhst a ata Bae sewlart
rere soft a pret aT ferarse Ft a fers oH at At aes (feat ara veda ae Pear

STUNT; Tet Aaa Sl TeTa PAT STCAT ) I

6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

6. STS IT STS F Tet ASA HT HILT S, AS HS Vy, TT H Shears ae aT Ft Tear F I

[rer. &. 12012/2/2021-ft we 1]
ath. of, dae aha

fecqoft: yer frre fears 23 avaax, 1960 i dear sft. wa. aie. 1398 AEA SF AIT HUTT, ATT II,
as 3, T7-as (i) F varied Paw & atx feats 29 Fe, 2020 Ft Hear ST. wa. se. 331 (aA) F TT
atfea are aorttera Feu ae

STS ATTA :

Hal ATH, BT site att (Fane site fata) setters aferfaa, 2021 (2021 ar 16)  ATeTH FT
steearhta art site att (fare site fatter) aferrra, 1957 At arr 8 Ar Saar (4) wl Taqare
fereraret ara & Tet abt srater ar fase Hea a fore aearet Hot ar fers are Fara Get AT srater
at feaeare et fore saree HU S, frees at ar rarer ar faa 2W4eT At Serer (2) H fafea Peat war
@ ate ara & Tet atten & fore afae araeat al fare 2477 sahara (5) F ara H et Ft aaa
fercare & fero Pear aT area AAT STOTT |e Warfore fear srrat & fe Pett ft aries az Sat Fraat
Here & oerett ara St a TheeET Tare Tel SAT

MINISTRY OF COAL
NOTIFICATION
New Delhi, the Ist October, 2021

G.S.R. 717(E).—In exercise of powers conferred by Section 13 of the Mines and Minerals
Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957) , the Central Government hereby makes the following
tules further to amend the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960, namely:-

1. Short title and commencement—(1) These rules may be called the Mineral Concession
(Amendment) Rules, 2021.

 (2) Save as otherwise provided in these rules they shall come into force on the date of their
publication in Gazette of India.

 2. In the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960, (hereinafter referred to as the principal rules),in rule 2, in sub-
tule (1), after clause (vii),the following clause shall be inserted, namely:-

“(viia) “run-of-mine” means the raw, unprocessed or uncrushed material in its natural state obtained after
blasting, digging, cutting or scraping from the mineralised zone of a lease area;’.
 [ATT are 3(i)] WT BT UTA: AATATOT 7

3. In the principal rules, after rule 24B the following rule shall be inserted, namely:-
“24C. Period of mining lease granted to Government companies or corporations. —

(1) All mining leases granted on or after the commencement of the Mineral Concession (Amendment)
Rules, 2021 to a Government company or corporation for coal or lignite shall be for a period of
fifty years.

 (2

YS

All subsisting mining leases vested or granted to a Government company or corporation before
commencement of the Mineral Concession (Amendment) Rules, 2021 for coal or lignite shall be
deemed to have been granted for fifty years or till 31* March 2030, whichever is later.

 (6)

S

The State Government, upon an application made to it in this behalf by the Government company
or corporation at least three months prior to the expiry of the mining lease, shall extend the period
of the mining lease for a further period of twenty years at a time:

 Provided that the State Government may condone the delay in application for extension made after
the prescribed time limit:

Provided further that no extension of period of mining lease shall be granted to a Government
company or corporation that has been selected through auction.

 (4

Se

If an application for extension of mining lease made within the time mentioned in sub-rule (3) is
not disposed of by the State Government before the date of expiry of the lease, the period of that
lease shall be deemed to have been extended till the State Government passes an order on the same.

 (5

YS

All applications made by a Government company or corporation for renewal of mining lease which
were pending as on the date of commencement of the Mines and Minerals (Development and
Regulation) Amendment Act, 2021 (16 of 2021) shall be deemed to be applications for extension of
the period of the mining lease and shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of sub-
tule (3).”.

 4. In the principal rules, after rule 27, the following rule shall be inserted, namely:-

“27A. Manner of sale of coal or lignite by the lessee of a captive mine. — (1)Any lessee may, where coal
or lignite is used for captive purpose, sell coal or lignite up to such per cent. of the total coal or lignite
produced in a financial year, as allowed under sub-section (5) of section 8, after meeting the requirement of
the end use plant linked with the mine.

 Explanation 1.- For the purpose of this rule it is clarified that the requirement of the end use plant linked
with the mine for a financial year shall be the actual quantity of coal or lignite consumed in the said plant in
that financial year or a part thereof.

 Explanation 2.- For the purpose of this rule, quantity of coal or lignite produced, sold, utilised in linked
end-use plant and the payment of additional amount on the quantity sold shall be assessed on run-of-mine
basis.

 Explanation 3.-Sale of any tailings, rejects or middlings shall not be restricted by this rule.

 (2) For the quantity of coal or lignite sold in accordance with sub-section (5) of section 8, the lessee shall
pay to the State Government, at the time of payment of royalty, an additional amount as specified in the
Sixth Schedule of the Act, which shall be in addition to royalty or payment to the District Mineral
Foundation and National Mineral Exploration Trust or any other statutory payment or payment specified in
the tender document or the auction premium, wherever applicable.

 (3) Within one month of the end of a financial year, for sale made in the previous financial year, the lessee
shall submit to the Nominated Authority, Ministry of Coal, Coal Controller’s Organisation and to the State
Government, a self-declaration in Form R.

(4) Sale of coal shall not be allowed from the coal mines allotted to a company or corporation that has been
awarded a power project on the basis of competitive bid for tariff (including Ultra Mega Power Projects).”

 Explanation.-For the purpose of this rule, it is clarified that the provision for sale of coal or lignite as
prescribed in this rule shall not affect the eligibility conditions and efficiency parameters prescribed in the
respective agreements entered into by the lessee with the Central Government.
 8 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

5. In the principal rules, for rule 28, the following rule sha ll be substituted, namely:-

“28. Lapsing of Leases—— (1) Where production and dispatch has not commenced within a period of two
years from the date of execution of the mining lease or is discontinued for a continuous period of two years
after commencement of production or dispatch, the mining lease shall lapse on the expiry of the period of
two years from the date of execution of the lease or as the case may be, discontinuance of the production
and dispatch.

 (2) The lapsing of the mining lease shall be recorded through an order issued by the State Government and
shall also be communicated to the lessee.

 (3) Where a lessee is unable to commence the production and dispatch within a period of two years from
the date of execution of the mining lease or discontinuation of production and dispatch for reasons beyond
his control, he may submit an application to the State Government, requesting for an extension of such
period of two years by a further period not exceeding one year, explaining the reasons for the same, at least
three months before the expiry of such period of two years:

Provided where the lessee has failed to make the application within the time stipulated above, the lease
shall lapse on expiry of the period of two years.

 (4) Application made under sub-rule (3) shall specify—

(a) the reasons on account of which it will not be possible for the lessee to undertake mining
operations or continue production and dispatch;

(b) the manner in which such reasons are beyond the control of the lessee;
(c) the steps that have been taken by the lessee to mitigate the impact of such reasons; and
(d) the period of extension sought.

 (5) Every application under sub-rule (3) shall be accompanied by a fee of two hundred rupees.

 (6) The State Government shall, after examining the application, pass an order, within a period of three
months from the date of receipt of the application made under sub-rule (3) or the date on which the mining
lease would have otherwise lapsed, whichever is earlier, either granting or rejecting such request:

Provided that such mining lease shall lapse on failure to undertake production and dispatch or inability to
continue production and dispatch within the extended period of one year:

Provided further that such extension shall not be granted for more than once during the entire period of
lease.

 (7) The State Government shall communicate to the Coal Controller’s Organisation, Nominated Authority
and Ministry of Coal the order recorded under sub-rule (2) or issued under sub-rule (6)within fifteen days
of recording or issuing of such order.”.

 6. In the principal rules, rule 28A shall be omitted.
 7. In the principal rules, for rule 64B, the following rule shall be substituted, namely:-

“64B. Charging and instance of payment of royalty in case of minerals subjected to processing — The
royalty shall be charged on run-of-mine coal or lignite irrespective of its processing within or outside the
leased area:

Provided that the royalty shall be payable at the time of dispatch from or consumption within the leased
area.”.

 8. In the principal rules, rule 64C shall be omitted.

 9. In the principal rules, in Schedule I, after Form Q, the following Form shall be inserted, namely:-
[ATT are 3(i)] WT BT UTA: AATATOT

“Form R
( Rule 27A (3))

Self-declaration

For the financial year 1“April20___ ——_ to 31*March 20
ANNUAL RETURN
To
(i) The Nominated Authority
Ministry of Coal

Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi

(ii) The Coal Controller
Office of the Coal Controller’s Organisation
1, Council House Street,
Lal Dighi, BBD Bagh
Kolkata, West Bengal-700001

(iii) State Government

(PRODUCTION, DISPATCHES AND STOCKS OF COAL/LIGNITE)
(Unit of Quantity in Tonnes)

1. Details of Mine:

(a) | Registration number allotted by Indian Bureau of Mines
(to give registration number of the Lessee-Owner)

(b) | Mine Code (allotted by Indian Bureau of Mines)

(c) | Name of the Mineral (Coal OR Lignite):

(d) | Name of Mine

2. Location of the Mine:

Village

Post Office

Tahsil-Taluk

District

State

PIN Code

 Fax No: E-mail:
Phone No: Mobile:

3. Name and address of Lessee-Owner (along with fax no. and e-mail):

(a) Name of Lessee-Owner

(b) Address

(c) District

(d) State

(e) PIN Code

10 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(f) Fax No.: E-mail:
(g) Phone No: Mobile:
(h) Registered Office of the Lessee

(i) Director in-charge

) Agent:

(k) Manager:

4. Yearly Grade-wise Production, EUP Requirement, EUP Utilisation, Sale etc.

 Lignite/ | Opening stock | Production EUP EUP Quantity Sold Closing

Grades of} at pit-head Requirement | Utilisation stock at

coal (Carried pit-head
Forward)

5. Sales- Dispatches effected for Domestic Purposes and for Exports:

Nature of

Dispatch For Domestic Purposes For export

of coal (Indicate
whether | Registration] Consignee | Quantity | Sale |Country|] Quantity | F.O.B
Domestic number/ name### Value (®)
Sale GSTN of the
buyer/
consignee ##|

or Domestic
Transfer or

Captive

consumption

or Export)

 Grand Total:

## To indicate separately if more than one buyer.

 NOTE: - Mine owners are required to substantiate domestic sale value- FOB value for each grade of coal
or lignite quoted above with copy of invoices (not to be submitted with the return; to be produced whenever
required).

 6. Give reasons for increase-decrease in production-nil production, if any, during the year
compared to the previous year.
a)

 [ATT are 3(i)] WT BT UTA: AATATOT 11

7. Give reasons for increase-decrease in grade wise ex-mine price, if any, during the year
compared to the previous year.

 a)

b) w...

 Placet...........0008 Signature... 0.0... cece eee cece eee wees
Date...........:0.008 Name in Full............. cece eee eee eee

Designation: Owner/Agent/Mining Engineer/Manager”.
 [F. No. 12012/2/2021-PS1]
BHABANI PRASAD PATL Jt. Secy.

 Note: The principal rules were published in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (i) vide
number G.S.R. 1398, dated the 23"November, 1960 and lastly amended vide number G.S.R 331(E)
dated the 29" May, 2020.

 Explanatory Memorandum

Sub-section (4) of Section 8 of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957inserted
through the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2021 (16 of 2021)
empowers the Central Government to prescribe the period of existing mining leases and to extend the
period of mining leases in case of Government companies or corporations. Accordingly, the period of
existing mining leases has been prescribed in sub-rule (2) of rule 24C and the pending applications for
renewal of mining leases shall be deemed to be applications for extension of period of mining lease in sub-
tule (5) of rule 24C. It is certified that no person is being adversely affected by granting retrospective effect
through these rules.

 Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054. ALOK KUMAR BSitlissnebynoceums,
Pat Ao Sto Ueto-33004/99 REGD. NO. D. L.-33004/99

Hi<d a CIstda

Z ort
Che Gazette of Gudia

STATE
EXTRAORDINARY

am l—avs 3—s0-au¢ (ii)
PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (ii)

wit & venfira
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

a. 591] we favcit, qerare, aret 18, 2015 /HTETA 27, 1936
No. 591] NEW DELHI, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2015 /PHALGUNA 27, 1936

PaeaT FATT
afer
ae farett, 18 ATH, 2015

Ha. 782(a4).— alae ara (Fase State) fedtar aearest, 2014 (2014 ar 7) At ater 31 are vac
oftaat ar TaTT HS BU, Ae ACH Veer Hae ara (fasra soda) Frarqaet, 2014 F Aerts Het
feu faeaferfaa fare sare = -—

1. (1) oat frrat ar Brae are (fore Soedter) Aotterat Fara, 2015 Har TTT

(2) 3 aeart terra F Sah THe AT ae A Wace SPT

2. aaa ar (faera sada) fara, 2014 free, 11 F sa-fraa (9) * are fafa
So-FAae FY TST STAT, AAT -—

“(10) Sa acer artafte fea Ft car fefea a af feu ae art > fore aqefi-l alae ara a
a acer A aot aera Para at anafed eer & fora ga aa & fg soaat Ff ge & aadt S 1”

["T. 4. 54018/2/2015 — atv- Il]

fara ara, tard aha

feoqoft : yet fra feat 11 feara, 2014 & ararfl. 883(H) % ded Area F AAA TTS, TTI,
@us_3, 37-az (ii) F varie Fao TT A

1267 GI/2015 (1)
2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(ii)]

MINISTRY OF COAL
NOTIFICATION
New Delhi, the 18th March, 2015

S.O. 782(E).—In exercise of the powers conferred by section 31 of the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Second Ordinance, 2014 (7 of 2014), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules
to amend the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014, namely :—

1. (1) These rules may be called the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Amendment Rules, 2015.
 (2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.

 2. In the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014, in rule 11, after sub-rule (9), the following
sub-rule shall be inserted, namely:—

“(10) The Central Government may in public interest and for the reasons to be recorded in
writing, relax any of the provisions of this rule for the allotment of a Schedule I coal mine to a
Central Government company or corporation.”

 [F. No. 54018/2/2015-CA-II ]
VIVEK BHARADWAJ, Jt. Secy.

 Note : The principal rules were published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3,
Sub-section (ii) vide number G.S.R. 883(E), dated the 11th December, 2014.

Printed by the Manager, Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054.
 THE COAL GRADING BOARD (REPEAL) ACT, 1959

ARRNGEMENT OF SECTIONS

SECTIONS
1. Short title and commencement.
 2. Definitions.
 3. Repeal of Act 31 of 1925 and dissolution of Coal Grading Board.
 4. Consequential provisions.
 THE COAL GRADING BOARD (REPEAL) ACT, 1959
ACT NO. 17 OF 1959

 [9th May, 1959.]

 An Act to repeal the Coal Grading Board Act, 1925, and to provide for certain matters incidental
thereto.

 BE it enacted by Parliament in the Tenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:—

1. Short title and commencement.—(/) This Act may be called the Coal Grading Board (Repeal)
Act, 1959.

 (2) It shall come into force on such date! as the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, appoint.

2. Definitions.—In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—
(a) “appointed day” means the date on which this Act comes into force;

(b) “Coal Board” means the Coal Board established under section 4 of the Coal Mines
(Conservation and Safety) Act, 1952 (12 of 1952);

(c) “Coal Grading Board” means the Coal Grading Board constituted under section 3 of the Coal
Grading Board Act, 1925 (31 of 1925).

 3. Repeal of Act 31 of 1925 and dissolution of Coal Grading Board.—On the appointed day, the
Coal Grading Board Act, 1925 (31 of 1925), shall stand repealed, and the Coal Grading Board shall stand
dissolved.

 4. Consequential provisions——(/) All moneys and other property, of whatever kind, owned by or
vested in, the Coal Grading Board immediately before the appointed day and all debts, liabilities and
obligations of that Board then existing shall, on the appointed day, stand transferred to and vested in the
Coal Board.

 (2) Anything done or any action taken before the appointed day by the Coal Grading Board shall, so
far as it is not inconsistent with any of the provisions of the Coal Mines (Conservation and Safety) Act,
1952 (12 of 1952), or the rules made thereunder, be as valid and effectual as if it had been done or taken
by the Coal Board.

 1. 14th August, 1959, vide notification N o. S.O. 1771, dated 7th August, 1959, see Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II,
sec. 3(ii).
 66
283176/2021/P&S-II

F.No.13011/2/2020-CBA2-Part(2)
Government of India

Ministry of Coal
ve oe He He He He
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi
Dated the ofMay, 2020
ORDER

Subject: Methodology for Auction of Coal Mines/Blocks for sale of coal under the Coal
Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 and the Mines and Minerals (Development and
Regulation) Act, 1957.

 The undersigned is directed to refer to Rule 8 (2) and 8 (3) of the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Rules, 2014 read with Section 8 (5) of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act,
2015 and Rule 3(1) (d) of the Coal Blocks Allocation Rules, 2017 read with Section 11A of
the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 and to say that the
Competent Authority has approved the methodology for auction of coal mines/blocks
identified under the relevant Act for sale of coal as mentioned in para 2 below:

Za Methodology and other conditions for auction of coal mines for sale of coal:-

2.1.1 Applicability: It shall be applicable on auction of all fully explored coal blocks/mines
(categorised in G-1 exploration stage as per the modified Indian Standard Procedure for Coal
Resource estimation, 2017) and partially explored coal blocks/mines (categorised in G-2 or
G-3 exploration stage) for sale of coal under the CMSP Act and MMDR Act. The
Methodology and other conditions shall also be applicable on lignite blocks, mutatis
mutandis.

 2.1.2 Bid Parameter: The bid parameter will be revenue share for both fully explored coal
mines (categorised in G-1 exploration stage) and partially explored coal mines (categorised in
G-2 or G-3 exploration stage). The auction will be an ascending forward auction where the
bidders would be required to bid for a percentage share of revenue which would be payable to
the State Government. The floor percentage of revenue share shall be 4%. The bid increments
will be accepted in multiples of 0.5 % of revenue share till the percentage (%) of revenue
share reaches 10% and thereafter, bid increments will be accepted in multiples of 0.25% of
revenue share. The bidder that submits the highest percentage (%) of revenue share in the
bidding shall be declared the preferred bidder.

 2.1.3 Revenue share payable:

(A) The successful bidder shall be required to pay revenue share on monthly basis which
shall be determined as product of:

(i) percentage (%) of revenue share (final bid) quoted by the successful bidder;

(ii) total quantity of coal on which the statutory royalty is payable during the month; and
(iii) notional price or actual price, whichever is higher, where

RD Page 1of5
age 96 of 255
283176/2021/P&S-II

(a) ‘notional price’ refers to the price arrived at after adjusting the representative price with
sub-index of NCI of relevant basket of coal grade(s) on the date on which royalty becomes
payable, where ‘representative price’ is product of-

(1) weights (volume of coal in different components of notified price, auction price and
imported price channels) of base year, and
(2) prices of these components at the time of issuance of tender, and

(b) ‘actual price’ refers to the sale invoice value of coal, net of statutory dues including taxes,
levies, royalty, NMET, DMF, etc.

 (B) In addition to revenue share, other statutory dues including taxes, levies, royalty, NMET,
DMF, ete. shall be payable under applicable laws.

 2.1.4 Incentives in revenue sharing model in certain events:
The successful bidder shall be provided with incentives in the following events:
(a) Early production:

(i) In case of fully explored blocks, a rebate of 50% on revenue share quoted by the
successful bidder would be allowed, till the scheduled date of production as per the
production schedule given in the tender document, for the quantity of coal produced earlier
than such scheduled date of production.

 (ii) In case of partially explored blocks, a rebate of 50% on revenue share quoted by
successful bidder would be allowed, till the scheduled date of production, for the quantity of
coal produced earlier than the scheduled date of production given in the approved mining
plan.

 (iii) Statutory dues including taxes, levies, royalty, NMET, DMF, etc. shall be payable as per
law. No exemption would be given to the successful bidder from obtaining any approval etc.
under applicable laws required for start of production.

 (b) Gasification or Liquefaction of coal: If the successful bidder consumes the coal
produced either in its own plant(s) or plant of its holding, subsidiary, affiliate, associate for
coal gasification or liquefaction or sells the coal for coal gasification or liquefaction process,
a rebate of 20% on the percentage revenue share quoted by the successful bidder will be
allowed on the total quantity of coal consumed or sold or both for gasification or liquefaction
on an yearly basis, subject to the following conditions:

(i) At least 10% of scheduled coal production as per approved mining plan for that year shall
be consumed or sold for gasification or liquefaction;

(ii) that Coal Controller’s certification would be required for the quantity of coal consumed or
sold or both for gasification or liquefaction.

 (c) Empowered Committee of Secretaries may review and determine the incentives on
revenue share from time to time.

 2.1.5 Upfront Amount:

(A) The Upfront Amount shall be calculated at 0.25% of the value of estimated geological
reserves of the coal mine. Value of estimated geological reserves shall be equal to the product

of the following:
XD Page 2 of 5

Page 97 of 255

67
283176/2021/P&S-II

(i) estimated quantity of geological reserves in the coal mine, and
(ii) the representative price of relevant grade(s) of coal referred in para 2.1.3
(A)(iii)(a) above.

 However, the upfront amount payable shall be as per actual calculation as per above method
or as per ceiling mentioned here below, whichever is lower:-

Geological Reserves in mine (MT)
 (Rs. er)

Upper ceiling of Upfront a |

Upto 200 100

Above 200 500

_t

(B) The ceilings are calculated as per prevalent market conditions and the same is liable to be
revised in case there is substantial upward/downward change in market conditions by
Empowered Committee of Secretaries.

 (C) The Successful Bidder shall have the option to get the Upfront Amount adjusted against
the revenue share payable subject to the condition that such adjustment of upfront amount
shall not exceed 50% of the revenue share payable in the year.

 (D) The Upfront Amount shall be payable by the successful bidder in 4 equal installments as
provided in the tender document.

 2.1.6 Sale and/or Utilisation of Coal

There shall be no restriction on the sale and/ or utilisation of coal from the coal mine. The
successful bidder shall be free to sell coal in any manner as may be decided by the successful
bidder including sale to affiliates and related parties, utilise coal for any purpose including
but not limited to captive consumption, gasification, liquefaction and export of coal.

 2.1.7 Flexibility in Coal Production

(A) The successful bidder shall produce coal not below 65% of the scheduled production as
per approved mine plan in a year subject to the condition that the successful bidder shall not
produce coal less than 75% of the scheduled production as per approved mine plan in any
block of three years. The three-year block shall be counted from the first financial year of
scheduled commencement of production in the coal mine.

 (B) Revenue share payable to the Government in case of shortfall in coal production in
a financial year:

(i) In the event the annual coal production is less than 65% of the scheduled production in
any financial year, the successful bidder shall be required to pay the revenue share (for both,
coal produced and shortfall) so that the total revenue share paid is equal to 65% of scheduled
coal production for that financial year.

 (ii) In such cases, the annual revenue share payable for the shortfall quantity (65% of
scheduled coal production Jess the quantity of coal on which the statutory royalty is paid)
shall be computed on the basis of notional price.

 (C) Revenue share payable to the Government in case of shortfall in coal production in
a block of three financial years:

(i) Further, in event the coal production in a block of three financial years is less than 75% of
the scheduled production for that block, the successful bidder shall be required to pay the
revenue share (for both, coal produced and shortfall) so that the total revenue share paid is
equal to 75% of scheduled coal production for that block of three financial years.

 ofl

Page 3 of 5

68
283176/2021/P&S-II

(ii) In such cases, the revenue share payable for the shortfall quantity (75% of scheduled coal
production of three years /ess the quantity of coal on which the statutory royalty is paid in
three years) shall be computed on the basis of notional price.

 (D) However, statutory dues including taxes, levies, royalty, NMET, DMF, etc. shall be
payable as per the applicable law.

 2.1.8 Exploitation of Coal Bed Methane

 In case there is presence of coal bed methane (CBM) in the coal mine, the successful
bidder may also commercially exploit the CBM present in the mining lease area and shall
approach the Directorate General of Hydrocarbon (DGH) for its technical approval followed
by the grant of CBM mining lease by respective State Government. In addition to monthly
revenue share payable for coal, the successful bidder shall also make payments of monthly
revenue share for CBM based on same percentage revenue share quoted (final bid) by it
during auction of coal mine. Other mechanisms with regard to arriving at the price of CBM
shall be governed by the applicable Policy issued by M/o Petroleum and Natural Gas being
the administrative Ministry.

 2.1.9 Relinquishment of the block

A successful bidder of a partially explored coal block shall be permitted to relinquish
the coal block on meeting the conditions given in the tender documents.

 2.1.10 Other terms and conditions/ modalities of auction including eligibility criteria shall be
decided by the M/o Coal.

 2.1.11 Existing CCEA approved methodologies applicable on allotment of coal mines under
the CMSP Act shall be applicable on allotment of blocks under the MMDR Act.

 2.1.12 No limit on number of coal mines or reserves or any other parameter regarding
production of coal or any combination thereof that can be allocated to a company or its
affiliate company, associate company, holding company or subsidiary is to be imposed in the
first tranche of auction for sale of coal. Based on the learnings, suitable limits in subsequent
tranches of auction may be placed as per decision /recommendation of an Empowered
Committee of Secretaries.

 2.1.13 The CCEA approved methodology dated 27.02.2018 for auction of coal mines for sale
of coal shall stand modified to the extent covered in the proposal.

 2.2 A National Coal Index (NCI) along with its sub-indices of relevant basket of coal grades
shall be developed in accordance with 2nd report of High Power Expert Committee (HPEC)
with following modifications:

. NCI shall be computed on bi-monthly basis.

 Il. Bifurcation of the coking coal into two parts: Steel Grade, into which the price of the
imported component of coking coal would be included and second the Washery Grade
(consisting of W-1, 2, 3 and 4), in which there would be no import component. Rest
of the Coking Coal, i.e. W-5 and  W-6 may be treated as the corresponding Grade of
Non-Coking Coal.

III. Revenue Share Payable: As proposed in para 2.1.3 above.

 CA Page 4o0f 5

Page 99 of 255

69
283176/2021/P&S-II

2.3 With the approval of Competent Authority, an Empowered Committee of Secretaries has
been constituted vide OM of even number dated 28.05.2020 to deliberate and decide/
recommend on the miscellaneous terms and conditions for successive rounds of auction and
also on the operationalisation aspects of coal mines as detailed in the OM dated 28.05.2020
referred to in this para.

 2.4 Increasing the tenure of coking coal linkage

The coking coal linkage in the non-regulated sector linkage auction may be granted
for a tenure upto 30 years.

 This issues with the approval of Competent Authority.

(Rishan R yntathiang)
Under Secretary to the Govt. of India
Tel. 23384104

 To
(1) The Nominated Authority, Ministry of Coal

(2) JS (BPP), Ministry of Coal: For appropriate necessary action in respect of auction of
coal mines under the relevant provisions of the MMDR Act, 1957 and Rules made
there under.

 (3) Director (CLD), Ministry of Coal
Copy to:

PS to Hon'ble Minister of Coal

PSO to Secretary (Coal)

PPS to AS (Coal)

PPS to JS (MN)/ PPS to JS (RKS)/PS to JS (BPP)

DS (NA)/DS (CBA-ID/DS(CBA-I)

STD, NIC, Ministry of Coal......for uploading on the website of Ministry.

 SY Soe oS

Page 5 of 5

Page 100 of 255

70
MINISTRY OF STEEL, MINES AND FUEL
( Department of Mining & Fuel )

Notification
New Delhi, dated the 12" June, 1957
S.R.O. 2042.--- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 27 of the Coal Bearing Areas
(Acquisition & Development) Act, 1957 (20 of 1957), the Central Government hereby makes the

following rules, namely:-

1. Short title and commencement.--- (1) These rules may be called the Coal Bearing Areas
(Acquisition and Development) Rules, 1957.

 (2) They shall come into force at once.
 2. Definitions.--- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, :-

(i) “the Act” means the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition & Development) Act, 1957

(20 of 1957);
(ii) “Area” means the coal bearing area which it is intended to prospect or acquire
under the provisions of the Act;
(iii) “‘section” means the section of the Act.
 3. Mode of service of notice or order.--- (1) Any notice or order required to be served under

the Act, if of a general nature or affecting a number of persons, shall be published in the official
Gazette and the due publication of such notice or order shall also be given by proclaiming it by
beat of drum on or near the area and by affixing a copy of it on some conspicuous place on or
near the area.

 (2) Any notice or order required to be served under the Act, if directed against an
individual:-

(i) shall be served by delivering or tendering a copy thereof duly signed to the person
on whom it is to be served or to his duly empowered agent;

(ii) where the person on whom the notice or order is to be served cannot be found and
where such person has no agent empowered to accept service of notice or order,
service may be made on any adult member of the family of such person residing
with him ;

(iii) | where the serving officer delivers or tenders a copy of the notice or order to the
person to the served with such notice or order personally or to his agent or other
person on his behalf, he shall require the signature of the person to whom the
copy is so delivered or tendered in token of the acknowledgment of the service on
the original notice or order;
(iv) | where the person to be served with the notice or order of his agent or such other
person as aforesaid refuses to sign the acknowledgement, or where the serving
officer, after issuing all due and reasonable diligence, cannot find the person to be
served with the notice or order, and there is no agent empowered to accept service
of the notice or order on his behalf nor any other person on whom service can be
made, service may be effected by affixing a copy of the notice or order on the
outer door or some conspicuous part of the houses in which the person to be
served with the notice or order ordinarily resides. or carries on business or
personally works for gain or by affixing a copy of such notice or order to a
conspicuous place on or near the area;

(v) the serving officer shall, in all cases in which the notice or order has been served
in the manner stated in clause (iv), endorse or annex or cause to be endorsed or
annexed, on or to the original notice or order, a return witnessed by two persons
living in the neighborhood stating the date on which and the manner in which the
notice or order was so served.

 Every such substituted service shall be as effectual as if it has been made on the person
concemed personally.

 (vi) notwithstanding anything contained in clauses (i) to (v), the authority ordering the
service of a notice or order may, if he thinks fit or when he finds that the service
cannot be effected in any of the modes aforesaid, order that the notice or order
shall be served by sending a copy thereof, duly signed, by registered post with
acknowledgement due to the person on whom such notice or order is to be served
at his last known address;

 In case of such service an acknowledgement purporting to be signed by such person or
his duly empowered agent or an endorsement by a postal employee that such person or
the agent refused to take delivery, may be deemed by the authority ordering service of
such notice or order to be prima facie proof of service;

(vii) where the person to be served with notice or order is a minor or a person of
unsound mind, the notice shall be served in the aforesaid manner, on the guardian
of such minor or person of unsound mind, as the case may be.

 (3) any notice or order required to be served under the Act, if directed against a
Corporation, may be served:-

(a) on the Secretary, or on any Director, or other principle officer of the
Corporation, or

(b) by leasing it or sending it by post addressed to the Corporation at the
registered office, or if there is no registered office then at the place where the
Corporation carries on business.
 5.

4. The procedure to be followed after the issue of notification under section 7.---

(1) On the publication in the Official Gazette of a notification under section 7,
any person interested in any land in respect of which such notification has been issued,
may, within thirty days of the notification, make objection to the competent authority in
writing.

 (2) Every objection referred to the in clause (1) shall contain a statement of the
nature of the interest of the objector over the area to be acquired, and shall also contain a
statement as to whether the objector is or is not in actual possession of such area. The
objection shall be duly verified by the objector or his duly authorized agent. The objector
shall submit along with the objection a list of documents, if any, on which he relies for
establishing his objection. The objector shall also file along with his objection as many
copies of the objection as are required by the competent authority.

 (3) The competent authority on receiving the objection, if it complies with the
requirements laid down in this rule, register such objection and fix a date for the hearing
of the objection and give notice thereof to the objector as well as to all the parties
interested in the area in respect of which the objection is filed. With every such notice a
copy of the objection filed shall be annexed except in the case of the objector. Any party
interested may file at least fifteen days before the date fixed by the competent authority
for hearing of the objection, a statement by way of reply to the objection.

 (4) On the date fixed for the hearing of the objection or any other date to which
the hearing may be adjourned by the competent authority, the competent authority shall
examine whereas, if tendered on behalf of the objector or any other interested party.

 (5) The proceeding before the competent authority shall be summary, and only the
substance of the statement of parties or the statement of the witnesses, if any shall be
recorded.

 (6) The competent authority shall, after hearing the arguments, if any, of the
parties concerned and after making such further inquiry as he thinks necessary, submit
the case for decision of the Central Government, together with a record of the
proceedings held by him and a report containing his recommendations on the objection.

Maps, charts, etc to whom to be delivered.--- All maps, charts and other documents

referred to in sub-section (7) of section 13 shall be delivered to the Revenue Officer of the
National Coal Development Corporation Limited within ninety days from the date of publication
of the notice under sub-section (1) of section 4 of the Act.

 5-A. Filing of claims for compensation.--- Any person interested may file his claim for
compensation to the Managing Director, National Coal Development Corporation Ltd, Ranchi,
or to such other officer as the Central Government may notify in that behalf;
(a) where the claim is in respect of any matter referred to in sub-section (1) of section 15,
within ninety days from the date of publication of the notice under sub-section (1) of
section 4;

(b) where the claim is in respect of any matter referred to in sub-section (4) of section 13,
within ninety days from the date of rescission of the notice issued under sub-
section(1) of section 4 or after the expiry of the period of three years specified in sub-
section (2) of section 7;

(c) where the claim is in respect of any matter referred to in sub-section (2) or sub-
section (5) of section 13, within ninety days from the date of publication of the
declaration under section 9 ;

Provided that Managing Director, National Coal Development Corporation Limited, Ranchi, or
such other officer may admit any claim within thirty days after the expiry of the specified period
if he is satisfied that the applicant had sufficient cause for not making the application within the
specified period.

 *6. Deposit of compensation.--- Where the amount of compensation including interest, if
any, payable under the Act has to be deposited with the Tribunal, such amount shall be deposited
into the treasury for credit in the accounts of the Central Government under the Head “ T-
Deposits and Advances — Part-II--Deposits not Bearing Interest — (C) Other Deposits Accounts-
Departmental and Judicial Deposits-Civil Deposits-Deposits of Tribunals appointed under the
Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957”.

 7. Procedure to be followed by Tribunal.--- (1) The Tribunal shall fix a date and place for
hearing of the matter which it is empowered to decide under the Act and shall inform the parties
of such date and place accordingly.

 (2) on the date so fixed or any other date to which the hearing may be adjourned, the Central
Government and every person interested in the dispute before the Tribunal shall state in writing
what in their respective opinions is a fair amount of compensation.

 (3) The Tribunal shall afford reasonable opportunity to the parties to adduce such oral and
documentary evidence as they desire to adduce and as may be relevant.

 (4) The Tribunal shall record the substance of the statement of the parties and the witnesses,
if any.

 (5) Any person who has been admitted to be interested and who has accepted the payment of
compensation under protest may within six weeks or the date of such acceptance prefer an
application to the Tribunal for determining the sufficiency of the amount of compensation:

Provided the Tribunal may entertain an application preferred within thirty days after the expiry
of the specified period if it is satisfied that the applicant had sufficient cause for not preferring
the application within the specified period.

 * Substituted by notification No. S.0. 3051, dated 21.8.1964 published in the Gazette of India, Part Il,
Section 3 (ii), dated 5.9.1964.
 ** 8. Appeals to Central Government: (1) Every appeal to the Central Government shall be in
the form of the memorandum singed by the appellant, and shall be addressed to the Secretary to
the Government of India in the Ministry of 3 ( Steel, Mines and Fuel (Department of Mining and
Fuel) and be presented to that officer personally or sent to him by registered post with
acknowledgement due. The memorandum shall be accompanied by a certified copy of the order
appealed against.

 (2) The memorandum of appeal shall set forth, concisely and under district head, the grounds
of the objection to the order appealed from without the argument or narrative; and such grounds
shall be numbered consecutively.
 (3) An appeal not filed within time allowed under the Act or in the manner laid down in this
tule shall be rejected by the Central Government but if the appeal is defective in form, the
Central Government, before rejecting such appeal, shall call upon the party concerned to remove
the defects within a particular time, and if he does so, the appeal shall be admitted.
 [ No.C2-1(4)/56 ]
R.N. CHOPRA, Deputy Secretary
71
283176/2021/P&S-II

tarst Ho Sto Ueto-33004/99 REGD. NO. D. L.-33004/99

Che Gazette of Jndia

STATATOT
EXTRAORDINARY
art [wave 3—3u-aue (ii)
PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (ii)
wife & wenrfgrat
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

a. 4018] we facet, dnetan, fearat 17, 2019/3TTeTIT «26, 1941
No. 4018] NEW DELHI, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 17, 2019/AGRAHAYANA 26, 1941

BTA TATA
afer
a facet, 17 fearaz, 2019

LAM. 4477 (a) — 35 Aa, Aare de afeare, 1897 (1897 ar 10) A are 21 ears aa
Hae art (fae sree) aferfara, 2015 (2015 ar 11) aren 7 Ft Sa-aret (2) teat wast Rat aT WATT
wed EU Wagar F. Ha. 3245(a), Rate 19 feaeax, 2014 & aha area FH TTA ATT II, SS 3,
sre (ii) + varie Brazen Fares F area Aer AT afer A fe aetrerst edt S TT eat aferara
Were & are TATA ST, Tata:

faate 19 fearaz, 2014 Ft after & fe wa deat F ea wfateat ar are fear ore, arate:

ma, | Here araleats | TS aratedt

38 areas geared wr. fe, waaa eta we oraz fe, erected
aifeat fer, arefe vata te oraz fa.

 42 Iprrd tee sahefaadt sicateer fer, were eee sorftefact
are

45 eet area fer, artive efear fer. atfaua serra fer.

 46 rer eat aaa fer., ears Feeder fer, waive ett aaa Fer.

48 sax vag usa faga scored fe, adie flaca saa

alcararet fer, Peres tsa faa scares Fara fer.

 6439 GI/2019 qd)

Page 74 of 255
283176/2021/P&S-II
2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART I—SEc. 3(ii)]

[rar . 13016/9/2014-2fte Ueto]
uri pare fare, aaa aT

MINISTRY OF COAL
NOTIFICATION
New Delhi, the 17th December, 2019

8.0. 4477(E).—In exercise of the powers conferred under sub-section (2) of section 7 of the Coal Mines
(Special Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of 2015) read with Section 21 of General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897), the Central
Government hereby makes following modification in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Coal,
published in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (ii), vide number S.O. 3245(E), dated 19th December,
2014, with effect from publication of this notification, namely:—

In the notification dated 19th December, 2014, the entries at following serial numbers shall stand omitted, namely:—

Sl. No. | Name of Coal Mine/ | Prior Allottee State
Block
38 North Dhadu Jharkhand Ispat Pvt. Ltd., Pavanjay Steel & Power Ltd, Jharkhand
Electrosteel Casting Ltd., Adhunik Alloys & Power Ltd.

 42 Machhakata Gujrat State Electricity Corporation Ltd., Maharashtra State
Electricity Board

45 Radhikapur (West) Rungta Mines Ltd, OCL India Ltd., Ocean Ispat Ltd.

46 Radhikapur (East) Tata Sponge Iron Ltd., Scaw Industries Ltd., SPS Sponge Iron
Ltd.

48 Chendipada Uttar Pradesh Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Limited, Chhatisgarh

Mineral Development Corporation Limited, Maharashtra State
Power Generation Corporation Ltd.

56 Seregraha Arcelor Mittal India Ltd., GVK Power (Govindwal Sahib) Ltd. Jharkhand

58 Majra Gondwana Ispat Ltd. Maharashtra

[F. No. 13016/9/2014-CAII/CBA-II]
RAJESH KUMAR SINHA, Jt. Secy.

Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi- 110054.

 Page 75 of 255
File No.CBA2-13011/9/2018-CBA2

F. No. 13011/9/2018-CBA2
Government of India
Ministry of Coal

2K RR KK

Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi
Dated the 9th November, 2021

 To,

CMD,

NLC India Limited,
Block -1,
Neyveli-607801,
Tamil Nadu

Subject: Permission requested for sale of coal from Talabira II & Ill OCP as per
MMDR (Amendment) Act 2021.

 Sir,

I am directed to forward herewith a copy of this Ministry’s letter of even no. dated
02.11.2021 on the above-mentioned subject along with a copy of notification dated
02.11.2021 published in the Gazette of India dated 02.11.2021 for information and necessary
action.

 Yours faithfully,

(Byasadev Naik)
Deputy Director

Copy to —

i. Nominated Authority, Ministry of Coal
ii. Coal Controller, CCO

ili. US(CPD), Ministry of Coal

iv. CMD, Coal India Limited

Copy also to-

STD, NIC - with the request to place the notification dated 02.11.2021 published in the
File No.CBA2-13011/9/2018-CBA2

Gazette of India dated 02.11.2021 on the website of the Ministry.

Signed by Byasadev Naik
Date: 09-11-2021 09:26:36
Reason: Approved
F. No. 13011/9/2018-CBA2
Government of India
Ministry of Coal
se ok ok ok ok
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi
Dated 2"! November, 2021

To,

CMD,

NLC India Limited,
Block -1,
Neyveli-607801,
Tamil Nadu

Subject: Permission for sale of coal from Talabira If & IIT OCP as per MMDR
(Amendment) Act, 2021.

 Siti

I am directed to refer to Gazette Notification dated 02.11.2021 (copy enclosed)
permitting sale of coal up to 75 percent of coal produced from Talabira II and III coal mine,
after meeting the requirement of their end use plants linked with these mines.

 2 In view of the present demand of coal in thermal power plants of the country, for 3
months from the date of this advisory, NLCIL may sell coal beyond 50 percent of production
from Talabira II and III coal mines to Thermal Power Plants only.

 Yours faithfully,

a

(Byasadev Naik)
Deputy Director
[To be published in Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (ii)]
Ministry of Coal
Notification

ont
New Delhi, the November, 2021

S.O:, sascesssses Whereas the Central Government, vide Section 8, sub-section (5) of the Mines
and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957) allows any lessee, where
coal or lignite is used for captive purpose, to sell such coal or lignite up to fifty per cent. of
the total coal or lignite produced in a year, on payment of an additional amount and after
meeting the requirement of the end use plant linked with the mine in such manner as may be
prescribed by the Central Government;

Whereas in exercise of powers conferred by Section 13, the Government has prescribed the
manner for this purpose in rule 27A of Mineral Concession Rules, 1960;

Now, in exercise of powers conferred by proviso to sub-section (5) of Section 8 of the Act,
the Central Government hereby increases the percentage of coal, as tabulated below, that may
be sold by NLC India Limited, up to 75 percent of coal produced from Talabira II and III
OCP up to 31 March, 2026, after meeting the requirement of their end use plants linked with
these mines, in the manner prescribed and in observance of conditions indicated in rule 27A
of Mineral Concession Rules, 1960.

 Estimated coal
production

Balance quantity of
coal approved for sale

7.5 (75%)

EUP requirement

2021-22 10 2.5

15 (75%)

2022-23 5.0

2023-24
2024-25
2025-26

15 (75%)
15 (75%)
15 (75%)
(All quantities in million tonnes)

 This is subject to review every year.
 [File No: CBA2-13011/9/2018-CBA2]

fat’

ay ul 1)

(B.P. Pati)
 Joint Secretary to the Govt. of India
 [INRA H WITH, HWHUMT, HTT Il, WS 3, SU-Gs (ii) A everest]
 Here Aare
after

~

ae beech, 2 Aas, 2021

CO | sath HT GSR, Get 3X Ulett (fare 3 fafersret) 3ifeiferra,
1957 (1957 aT 67) #Y er 8, 3u-RT (5) & aaa a feel st vst, set
Het a fasase Ar sual Aiteq seeu feu far ara &, aH aifaRea whey
& sae OL 3 bela AHR cant frei Ar ag Oia H HAR Ue a fees
Hea TIA HAT HY HlaQaehar Hl WW Hey H Va CS Hen a forsese H
va at A scared Hot Hae ar fesenge & gant wider aa gael At steer
att 8;

safe INT 13 GANT eet eferat sr valet aX By, MeN a Ueto Raa
faqa,1960 & fara 27H A sa seea & fav Afa faeihta Az:

3a, Hear FT aT 8 FY Sy-UNT (5) & Wd CaNT acd aieaath wr vals
AXA FU, aT HN feta aiferpr a HAR Hl & yaa al Vaagat serch
3, fod waver sur fetes cant sa weil S fees aryet sice sueler deat Ar
Haha HL WT Ate & GLa Mita Ma A ak aia Rasa fersH, 1960

& fet 27h A sfeafaa eet & Heater A, 31 Ard, 2026 aw areraer ll 3k
Il siarer S scariga alaet & 75 vided aH sar a Behe FI

2021-22 10 25 TOUS)

2022-23 20 | 5.0 18 175%)

| 2023-24 20 5.0 15 (75%)
2024-25 20 5.0 a 15 (75%) |
2025-26 20 5.0 15 (75%) |
(wai arane fAfererer Zar Fh

we ia aS wala & areaeltet oI
 [Ise G.: Brerw2-13011/9/2018- Arsre2]

ay

(at.tt.afa)
dyad afld, Ha WAR
freht &. At-uet- 33004/99 REGD. No. D. L.-33004/99

Che Gazette of India

SGA. -SY.Ue. -31.-02112021-230912
CG-DL-E-02112021-230912

HATATLT
EXTRAORDINARY
ATT L1—avs 3—Jq-Eue (ii)
PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (ii)

siferare & sear fer
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

a. 4228] we feeeh, WTA, TaFaX 2, 2021 arf 11, 1943
No. 4228] NEW DELHI, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2021/KARTIKA 11, 1943
RTA FATT

ae fare, 2 Tarax, 2021

Ta. 4589(a8).— state Fata aca, art ate atta (fare six fatter) afefrara, 1957
(1957 =r 67) tT art 8, So-aret (5) aera a fret Ah aera, wet srrear ar ferare]e ar STANT
afteg seem a feu frat ara 2, at after afer rarest oe site ata aa art Prather Ft we At
m aqare are & fers ster STANT aT FY ATS AHAT HT TT HLA BH TAMA Wa BTA AT erase HT WH TT
H sorted ear Hare aT ferarge Tare witerdt TH as Ft aah Sct zs;

wath are 13 are Want eka HT vant Hed Eu, arate +t alte Parad fray, 1960 F far
27% F sa seve F fora Ata Prather FT zs;

aa, afertrare Ft aren 8 ft STA (5) FTTH ST Tar Afeat HT TANT HL ST, HAT ALHTT
Fre arferar & are Braet & Thterdt HT Wasa ser @, ra waves sear fates art sa erat F
feras arrest ster STAT aaa AT ATareHAT BT TT HTH Tad Pathe At F aie aris Rarac Fras,
1960 % fra 27% F sfeahad aah & aqarerst F, 31 ATH, 2026 TH TAT II ste MN ara | Seater
Hrret 75 There Th TAT AT AAT SI

fatt & fers aqret
ay ATA T BAT SATS Sant arasaat at Ft a ATAT
2021-22 10 2.5 7.5 (75%)
2022-23 20 5.0 15 (75%)

 6370 GI/2021 (1)
2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part II—SEc. 3(ii)]

2023-24 20 5.0 15 (75%)

2024-25 20 5.0 15 (75%)

2025-26 20 5.0 15 (75%)
(aot arare Patera ZT A

ae ofa ad ater & seme 21
[orr. a. atefte2-1301 1/9/2018-atdt72]
attfafe, apn aha
MINISTRY OF COAL
NOTIFICATION

New Delhi, the 2nd November, 2021

S.O. 4589(E).—Whereas the Central Government, vide Section 8, sub-section (5) of the Mines and
Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957) allows any lessee, where coal or lignite is
used for captive purpose, to sell such coal or lignite up to fifty per cent. of the total coal or lignite produced
in a year, on payment o f an additional amount and after meeting the requirement of the end use plant linked
with the mine in such manner as may be prescribed by the Central Government;

 Whereas in exercise of powers conferred by Section 13, the Government has prescribed the manner
for this purpose in rule 27A of Mineral Concession Rules, 1960;

Now, in exercise of powers conferred by proviso to sub-section (5) of Section 8 of the Act, the
Central Government hereby increases the percentage of coal, as tabulated below, that may be sold by NLC
India Limited, up to 75 percent of coal produced from Talabira II and III OCP up to 31“ March, 2026, after
meeting the requirement of their end use plants linked with these mines, in the manner prescribed and in
observance of conditions indicated in rule 27A of Mineral Concession Rules, 1960.

 Year Estimated coal production EUP requirement aaa preced fovaale
2021-22 10 2.5 7.5 (75%)
2022-23 20 5.0 15 (75%)
2023-24 20 5.0 15 (75%)
2024-25 20 5.0 15 (75%)
2025-26 20 5.0 15 (75%)

(All quantities in million tonnes)

 This is subject to review every year.
 [F. No. CBA2-13011/9/2018-CBA2]
B.P. PATL Jt. Secy.

Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054. | ALOK KUMAR Digitally signed by ALOK KUMAR

Date: 2021.11.02 22:39:39 +05'30!
 Te Ho Sto Weto-33004/99 REGD. NO. D. L.-33004/99

“J a
Che Gazette of Gndia

EXTRAORDINARY
am [ave 3—30-WUE (ii)
PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (ii)

wifirere & wearieret
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY
a. 2143) ag faveit, Herat, staat 6, 2015 /amfyat 14, 1937
No. 2143] NEW DELHI, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2015/ASVINA 14, 1937
araer FareeT

afererar
ae feet, 6 arqax, 2015

Fa. 2704(a) are ara (fase soar) afer, 2015 At are 7 Ft So-aret (2) aret wae
erat aT AT HTS ST AT aT See afer A aA F fret fered setters Het Sf, TAT :—
ARTI F, 4. 68 ate aetaet whatteat & ara eafrfes wa deat az ofafteat ast ores,

qa —
me. a. | eat areas ar | wd aradt ar ara usa frat Fret
aT ara / aaa feat &

“eg | afar are yen fracet Saaaas HIT Wey year

70 | waat gen eter te are fat fer. eq Tae

™m «| az wer ares fares ards

72 | wteart were dtu fefate, artara derecrax (ft) fe, | Terrs

Sa eusedtar fer.

 73) WEeITT arare Prara Fora feafies, artrac aeft araieert ards

74 | TATA T ace ore face Sara we efea ara. fer. afeaa art

75 | wraTage St ace ore face Saad we shea are. Ufsan art

76 | ava wa faa, arraT aaa Us efter fer, svar frat atte (area) fe. Wererce”

 [ar. %. 13016/9/2014-Fhe-I (ATTA II)

faa aia, aa aha

4221 GI/2015 qd)
2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(ii)]

MINISTRY OF COAL
NOTIFICATION
New Delhi, the 6th October, 2015

S.O. 2704(E).—In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of Section 7 of the Coal Mines
(Special Provisions) Act, 2015, the Central Government hereby makes the following modification in
Schedule-III of the said Act, namely:—

In Schedule-III, after serial number 68 and the entries relating thereto, the following serial numbers and
entries shall be added, namely :—

Sl. No. Name of Coal Name of Prior Allottee State where Coal Mine/
Mine/ Block Block Located
“69 Suliyari Andhra Pradesh Mineral Development Corporation Madhya Pradesh

70 Brahampuri Pushp Steel and Mining Ltd. Madhya Pradesh

71 Bundu Rungta Mines Limited Jharkhand

72 Gondkhari Maharashtra Seamless Limited, Dhariwal Infrastructure Maharashtra
(P) Ltd., Kesoram Industries Ltd.

73 Gondulpara Tenughat Vidyut Nigam Limited, Damodar Valley Jharkhand
Corporation

74 Jaganathpur A West Bengal Mineral Dev. & Trading Corp. Ltd. West Bengal

75 Jaganathpur B West Bengal Mineral Development & Trading Corp. West Bengal

76 Khappa & Extn. Sunflag Iron & Steel Ltd., Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Ltd. | Maharashtra”

 [F. No. 13016/9/2014-CA-III (Vol. ID]
VIVEK BHARADWAIJ, Jt. Secy.

Printed by the Manager, Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi- 110064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054.
zfreft a. Ht. 33004/99 REGD. No. D. L.-33004/99

Che Gazette of India

aloft. -S1.Uet.-31.-18052020 -219427
CG-DL-E-18052020-219427

AATATOT
EXTRAORDINARY
art I—ave 3—34-are (i)
PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (i)
siferare & raft
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

a. 226] we faveft, arrarc, AE 18, 2020/A2T|@ 28, 1942
No. 226] NEW DELHI, MONDAY, MAY 18, 2020/VAISAKHA 28, 1942

SAAT ATT
ateeerat
as feeeft, 18 WE, 2020

ararft. 300(4) ata acer art ate afta (fara ait faftaa) afafrre, 1957
(1957 4 4. 67) Ft arr 13 Ft Sa-ATT (1) ate art 13 At SI-AMT (2) GS (A), (TH), (TS) AT
(AT) BT Tat THAT ST TART HL SU, HAA sate arated FaH, 2017 FH Aetaat Hea fers
fraferfac faa gard é:-

1. (1) ea frat ar aferea ara rare Sette Artest (Fetters) FTA, 2020 FI

(2) 1 UsrTs HSH Target FY ahs HT Tact ST

2. ara sath ardent fare, 2017 (eras ears aeaTa Het aH HET WaT z) H ae 2H TT-
fram (1) J

(i) ae (a) H, “artes FY are 11% As (*) are (A) HTH” Aeah site stat eas TT
“aferrra Ft arer 1128 Ft ST-aTeT (1) BT TNH” Mer TS STC

(ii) FS (SH) H, “Ala” Meat Bh ears Te “ATT AT afer” tert TS TTT

(iii) SS (mt) H, “Alaa” great Hearst Ue “a aT wa eraay” ates TE ATTAT

(iv) eS (A) F, “Hla” seat Hearst Te “TTS ar afseraay” ger TS STAT

2080 G1/2020 (1)
2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

3. om frerat & fre 3 & safe (1) Gs (a) A “aretha AY are 1 1a eT TH” area
ate stat & caret oe “afer Ft are 11% Ft So-aeeT (1) BT TH” Ter TS TTT

4, oo Frama & fra 5 F -
(\) sa-Frere (5) F-

(i) 4 (s.) F, “faites fro aw” great & caret oe “fafaar secret Ft sre fafatee fear
STU” Mer TS TTT;

(ii) @e (=) F, “at erat at fafatee at fers Peet fara ar yer eo at seit were
aot ar aye ar arated far at aaa 2” reat ITA Ie “AT BAA SeaTaat aT say Pet

Aft dae, rear feet Soe at fore ar sah ace Hoel ar tate Hot FY ade Fear aT
wal S, Haas F et seg araavs oe arate aha” wes TS TUT;

(Il) s4-Frazat (8) F-

(i) “ag areftarar free are Bre feast = THT aeteaT TA ATAT @” great aT aT PeaT
STUNT,

(ji) = “ter area arer fafafee fear aru” sreat & carat oe “fafaar eearat F Aer
HT are SAT Fae Pear TT” grex TS STAT

5, oom frat & fran 6 #:-

(%) sa-fere (4) & ae (w) F, “aT stat res Peet aeoett ar serht were aoe ar fare at
saet aarp Sot ar were aahat ar arafea fear at awa 2” seat carat Ue “AT BITAT
seared aT sae Peet ft aeattora, rece Peet poet ar fare ar seh aren ott ar ern aT aT
wean aot ar aye eodt ar seht daa Hot HT ardet Phar at awa z, F aaa A et ar
Aas oe aria FTA” ores TA TTT;

(a) sa-frara (5) F,

(i) “Hrrer ferat ares arta ae arafedt f aa seca soa Aas fore arrer feat
Rr arare oe aratfedtt arte 2, 2 arepare reat wer are Pear ST;

(ii) “Stat ett ears Paes Be oreat Bh earag Oe “ardet sea HAT ATH BIT SAT
fariise ae” greg Ta STAT

6. om frost & fae 7 F “orfetras Ah are 11% ar age” seat site stat F cart Tz
“afartiam Ft art 11% Ft So-aret (1) BT ATH” Mor TS TTT

7. om fraat & faa 8 4 -

(i) sa-frre (6) F, “aT Gat der” great Tara “aT Taher aaa fa-ae-ar-Ter” see
aacarite Pau sa;

(ii) Sa-fra (7) F, “aaa TET vara Pew aT ae” erect cara Oe “afer faa fae,
2004 % fran 9 & aefte ara Glare At aq Wee Pou ST IR” See TS TTT;
 [art Il—are 3(i)] FIST BT UIST» TATAT OT

(iii) Ta-frva (8) H, “Aare Tse aH” eat F aT AA aT AT “GT AAT Sea aT
affara at eq ae arafedt & aaa var Ft fore de aes Ah real” great F Bara SA aT
qreardt art & fern Fraferad cat sre, state:

“arferrht frat fra, 2004 & fara 9 aed ard alert At aaa ved Pau art Tz,
ST AAT FH TATE HLTA SeaTat There Ber a fore Safa (4) H eat AT aT
al ane arafedt arr war At we foment dee aredt & acrax ain & few ae arafedt
 Tse aa eat F ord iat ate aad roared de art Soret eT”

(iv) Ta-fAa (10) F, -

(*) -@S (a) H, “art Ter” great F ears oe “ater ae, Gert aqala, Gaat TET AT
aan apa a-ae-a Tel” Ter TS TTT

(@) @s (S) F, “aaa ver’ geet F Maa Oe “oer Tee, Weert aqafa, Gast TET aT
aan apa a-ae-a Tel” Ter TS TTT

8. om fraat & fers 10 F, -

(i) Sa-fraa (1) F, “arner arated strat arent feast aren Sta sft are et afers were aT
STATE ST TTT Sh” seat ea Ue “He arafedt aaa Arzerr ferast ares, Sar At Aaa ZT,
BLATT FUT AT AACA HLT A VTA SU” Mer TS TTT;

(ii) So-FAaa (2) F, “oT errer fereasrar ee” great er are aT SITET
 [rr #. 11022/01/2015-et7-IIl]
wart ware af, aa ahrst

fecrm: yor fram ararfa. 877(a4) arte 13 Fars, 2017 art ara F UTA, FATA,
ATI, GS-3, ST-Gs (i) F varfora Feu Te A

MINISTRY OF COAL
NOTIFICATION
New Delhi, the 18th May, 2020

G.S.R. 300(E). — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 13 and
clauses (d), (da), (db) and (dc) of sub-section (2) of section 13 of the Mines and Minerals
(Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957), the Central Government hereby makes the
following rules to amend the Coal Blocks Allocation Rules, 2017, namely: —

1. (1) These rules may be called the Coal Blocks Allocation (Amendment) Rules, 2020.
 (2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.

 2. In the Coal Blocks Allocation Rules, 2017 (hereinafter referred to as the said rules), in
rule 2, in sub-rule (1),—

(i) in clause (d), for the words and figure “the proviso to section 11A of the Act”, the words
“the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 11A of the Act” shall be substituted;

(ii) in clause (j), for the words “the price”, the words “a price or percentage” shall be
substituted;

(iii) in clause (0), for the words “the price”, the words “a price or percentage” shall be
substituted;
4 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(iv) in clause (x), for the words “the price”, the words “a price or percentage” shall be
substituted.

 3. In the said rules, in rule 3, in sub-rule (1), in clause (b), for the words and figure “the
proviso to section 11A of the Act”, the words and figures “the proviso to sub-section (1) of
section 11A of the Act” shall be substituted.

 4. In the said rules, in rule 5,—
(I) in sub-rule (5),—

(i) in clause (e), for the words “as may be specified”, the words “as may be specified in the
tender document” shall be substituted;

(ii) in clause (f), for the words “or both that may be allocated to a company or corporation or
its subsidiary or parent company”, the words “or a limit based on any other parameter
regarding production of coal or any combination thereof that may be allocated to a company
or corporation or its holding company or subsidiary company” shall be substituted;

(ID in sub-rule (8),—

(i) the words “for the end use plant on the basis of which it became a successful bidder” shall
be omitted;

(ii) for the words “as may be specified by the Central Government”, the words “as may be
specified by the Central Government in the tender document” shall be substituted.

 5. In the said rules, in rule 6,—

(a) in sub-rule (4), in clause (g), for the words “or both that may be allocated to a company or
corporation or its subsidiary or associate companies”, the words “or a limit based on any other
parameter regarding production of coal or any combination thereof that may be allocated to a
company or corporation or its holding company or subsidiary company or associate companies or
group companies or its affiliate” shall be substituted;

(b) in sub-rule (5),—

(i) the words “for the end use plant on the basis of which it became a successful allottee” shall
be omitted;

(ii) for the words “as may be specified by the Central Government”, the words “as may be
specified by the Central Government in the allotment document” shall be substituted.

 6. In the said rules, in rule 7, for the words and figure “the proviso to section 11A of the Act”,
the words and figures “the p roviso to sub-section (1) of section 11A of the Act” shall be substituted.

 7. In the said rules, in rule 8,—

(i) in sub-rule (6), after the words “or mining lease”, the words “or prospecting licence-cum-
mining lease” shall be inserted;

(ii) in sub-rule (7), for the words “upon grant of the mining lease”, the words “upon grant of
the mine opening permission under rule 9 of the Colliery Control Rules, 2004” shall be substituted;

(iii) in sub-rule (8), for the opening portion beginning with the words “The State Government
concerned” and ending with the words “as per the mining plan:” the following shall be substituted,
namely:—

“Upon grant of the mine opening permission under rule 9 of the Colliery Control Rules,
2004, the successful allocatee shall provide an unconditional and irrevocable performance bank
guarantee in favour of the State Government for the amount equivalent to the performance
bank guarantee submitted by it to the Central Government under sub-rule (4) for ensuring the
production of coal as per the mining plan:”

(iv) in sub-rule (10),—

(a) in clause (d), for the words “mining lease”, the words “reconnaissance permit, prospecting
licence, mining lease or prospecting licence-cum-mining lease” shall be substituted;
[art Il—are 3(i)] FIST BT UIST» TATAT OT

(b) in clause (e), for the words “mining lease”, the words “reconnaissance permit, prospecting
licence, mining lease or prospecting licence-cum-mining lease” shall be substituted.

 8. In the said rules, in rule 10,—

(i) in sub-rule (1), for the words “the successful allocatee or coal linkage holder shall”, the
words “‘the successful allocatee shall” shall be substituted;

(ii) in sub-rule (2), the words “or a coal linkage holder” shall be omitted.
 [F. No. 11022/01/2015-CA-IIT]
BHABANI PRASAD PATI, Jt Secy.

 Note: The principal rules were published in the Gazette of India, extraordinary, Part IL,
Section 3, Sub-section (i), vide number G.S.R. 877(E) dated the 13th July, 2017.

Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054. manos kumar VERMA 22tszsoredhy.o!suanveni
THE COAL MINES (CONSERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT) ACT, 1974

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

CHAPTER I
PRELIMINARY

SECTIONS

1.
2.
 3.

Short title, extent and commencement.
 Declaration as to expediency of control by Central Government.
 Definitions.

CHAPTER II
PROVISIONS RELATING TO CONSERVATION OF COAL AND DEVELOPMENT OF COAL MINES

Power of Central Government in respect of conservation of coal and development of coal mines.
 Duty of owner to take steps for the conservation and development of coal mine.

 Imposition of excise duties.

 Imposition of customs duty.

 Collection of excise duties.

 Utilisation of proceeds of duties levied and collected under sections 6 and 7.

. Duty of owner to open Coal Mine Conservation and Development Account.
. Power of Inspectors.

CHAPTER III
DISSOLUTION OF THE COAL BOARD AND TRANSFER OF EMPOLYEES THEREOF

. Dissolution of the Coal Board.

. Power of Central Government to direct vesting of rights in a Government company.

. Continuation of suits, etc., against the Central Government.

. Transfer of service of existing employees of Coal Board.

. No compensation to be paid for the transfer of services of any officer or other employee.

 CHAPTER IV
MISCELLANEOUS

. Protection of action taken in good faith.
 18.
 19.

 Power to make rules.
 [Repealed.]
THE COAL MINES (CONSERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT) ACT, 1974
ACT NO. 28 OF 1974
 [26th August, 1974.]

 An Act to provide for the conservation of coal and development of coal mines and for matters
connected therewith or incidental thereto.

 BE it enacted by Parliament in the Twenty-fifth Year of the Republic of India as follows:—
CHAPTER I
PRELIMINARY

1. Short title, extent and commencement.—(/) This Act may be called the Coal Mines
(Conservation and Development) Act, 1974.

 (2) It extends to the whole of India.

 (3) It shall come into force on such date'as the Central Government may, by notification, appoint in
this behalf.

 2. Declaration as to expediency of control by Central Government.—It is hereby declared that it is
expedient in the public interest that the Central Government should take under its control the regulation
and development of coal mines to the extent hereinafter provided.

 3. Definitions.—In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—
(a) “appointed day” means the day on which this Act comes into force;

(b) “blending” means the process of intimately mixing different varieties of coal so as to provide
a mixture which on carbonisation results in coke;

(c) “coal” includes coke in all its forms but does not include lignite;

(d) “Chief Inspector” and “Inspector” mean the persons respectively appointed as the Chief
Inspector of Mines and Inspector of Mines under the Mines Act, 1952 (35 of 1952), and the
provisions of that Act shall apply to the Chief Inspector and to all Inspectors while exercising their
powers under this Act or the rules made thereunder;

(e) “notification” means a notification published in the Official Gazette;
(f) “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under this Act;

(g) “scheduled bank” means a bank for the time being included in the Second Schedule to the
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934);

(h) “railway” shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Indian Railways Act, 1890 (9 of 1890);

(i) “safety in coal mines” includes the safety of any railway situated on the surface above a coal
mine;

(j/) “stowing” means the operation of filling, with sand or any other material, or with both, spaces
left underground in a coal mine by the extraction of coal;

(k) “washing” means such process or combination of processes as may be approved in this behalf
by the Central Government by which the whole or any part of the shaley and mineral matter found in
the coal is removed therefrom;

ers

(J) “agent”, “mine” and “owner” have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Mines
Act, 1952 (35 of 1952).

 1. Ist April, 1975, vide notification No. G.S.R. 164(E), dated 26th March, 1975, see Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II,
sec. 3(i).
 CHAPTER II
PROVISIONS RELATING TO CONSERVATION OF COAL AND DEVELOPMENT OF COAL MINES

4. Power of Central Government in respect of conservation of coal and development of coal
mines.—(/) The Central Government may, for the purpose of conservation of coal and for the
development of coal mines, exercise such powers and take, or cause to be taken, such measures as it may
deem necessary or proper or as may be prescribed.

 (2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, the Central Government may, by order
in writing addressed to the owner, agent or manager of a coal mine, require him to take such measures as
it may think necessary for the purpose of conservation of coal or for development of coal mines,
including—

(a) in any coal mine, stowing for safety, or

(b) the prevention of any factor which may adversely affect the conservation of coal or
development of coal mine, or

(c) washing of coal with a view to beneficiating and reducing the ash-contents of coal.

 '(3) The Central Government may, if it is satisfied after consideration of all the facts and
circumstances that the recovery of the cost of measures, if any, undertaken by it under sub-section (/) or
sub-section (2) in relation to a coal mine is justified, recover such cost from the owner, agent or manager
of the coal mine, either wholly or partly, in the same manner as an arrear of land revenue.]

5. Duty of owner to take steps for the conservation and development of coal mine.—(/) The
owner of a coal mine shall take, in relation to each coal mine owned by him, such steps as may be
necessary to ensure the conservation of coal and development of the coal mine.

 (2) Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of sub-section (/), the owner of a coal mine
shall—

(a) execute such stowing and other operations as may be necessary to be taken in furtherance of
the objects of this Act in so far as such objects relate to the conservation of coal or development of
the coal mine or the utilisation of coal obtained from the coal mine;

(b) acquire such stowing and other materials as may be necessary for ensuring the conservation of
coal, and safety in, the coal mine;

(c) undertake research in relation to conservation of coal, development of coal mines and
utilisation of coal;

(d) plan and undertake development of the coal mines in a scientific manner;

(e) undertake such other activity as the Central Government may, for the furtherance of the
objects of this Act, direct.

 6. Imposition of excise duties.—(/) With effect from the appointed day, there shall be levied and
collected on all coal raised and dispatched, and on all coke manufactured and dispatched, from the
collieries in India, such duty of excise, not exceeding rupees ten per tonne, as may be fixed from time to
time by the Central Government by notification, and different rates of duty may be levied on different
grades or description of coal or coke:

Provided that the Central Government may, by general or special order, exempt any special grade or
grades or description of coal or coke from the levy of such duty of excise.

 (2) For the purposes of sub-section (/), coal shall be graded by the Central Government in accordance
with such specifications as may be laid down by that Government from time to time.

 (3) All notifications issued under this section shall be laid, as soon as may be, before both Houses of
Parliament.

 1. Ins. by Act 55 of 1985, s. 2 (w.e.f. 1-1-1986).
 7. Imposition of customs duty.—During the period in which any duty of excise is being levied under
section 6, the Central Government may, by notification, impose on all coal (including soft and hard coke),
imported or brought into India from any place outside India, a duty of customs (which shall be in addition
to any duty of customs for the time being leviable under any other law), at the rates equivalent to the rates
of duty of excise levied under section 6.

8. Collection of excise duties.—'[(/)] The duties of excise levied under section 6 shall be collected
by such agencies and in such manner as may be prescribed.

 °[(2) Where any duty of excise referred to in sub-section (/) cannot be collected in the manner
prescribed under that sub-section, it shall be recovered from the owner of the coal mine in the same
manner as an arrear of land revenue.]

9. Utilisation of proceeds of duties levied and collected under sections 6 and 7.—In each financial
year, a sum not exceeding the net proceeds (determined in such manner as may be prescribed) of the
duties of excise and customs levied and collected under sections 6 and 7, respectively, during the
preceding financial year or years shall be disbursed by the Central Government in accordance with such
procedure as may be prescribed, to the owners, agents or managers of coal mines or to any other person
for one or more of the following purposes, namely:—

(a) conservation of coal and development of coal mines;

(b) grant of stowing materials and other assistance for stowing operations;

(c) execution of stowing and other operations for the safety in coal mines or conservation of coal;
(d) prosecution of research work connected with conservation and utilisation of coal; and

(e) any other purpose connected with the conservation of coal or development of coal mines, or
transportation, distribution or utilis ation of coal:

Provided that the Central Government may disburse to the owners, agents or managers of coal mines
or to any other person, a sum not exceeding the aggregate of the net proceeds of the duties of excise
collected under section 8 of the Coal Mines (Conservation, Safety and Development) Act, 1952
(12 of 1952), and remaining undisbursed before the commencement of this Act, for all or any of the
purposes specified in this section.

10. Duty of owner to open Coal Mine Conservation and Development Account.—(/) The owner
of every coal mine, to whom any money is disbursed under section 9, shall open a separate account in a
scheduled bank, to be known as the “Coal Mine Conservation and Development Account” and shall credit
to the said Account all sums so disbursed to him:

Provided that where it is necessary so to do in relation to the different groups of coal mines owned by
an owner, separate accounts may be opened in relation to each such group of coal mines.

 (2) The money standing to the credit of the Coal Mine Conservation and Development Account and
accretions thereto shall be applied by the owner of the coal mine to—

(a) the furtherance of the objects of this Act;
(b) the acquisition of stowing or other materials needed for stowing operations in coal mines;
(c) the execution of stowing and other operations in furtherance of the objects of this Act;

(d) the prosecution of research work connected with the conservation, development and
utilisation of coal and safety in coal mines;

(e) the planning and development of coal mines in a scientific manner; and

(f) any other expenditure which the Central Government may direct to be defrayed out of the
money standing to the credit of the Account.

 1. Section 8 re-numbered as sub-section (/) thereof by Act 55 of 1985, s. 3 (w.e.f. 1-1-1986).
 2. Ins. by s. 3, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-1-1986).
 (3) The Account, referred to in sub-section (/), shall be kept in such manner and in such form as may
be prescribed, and every such account shall be audited by the same person by whom the accounts of the
owner of the coal mine are audited.

 11. Power of Inspectors.—(/) The Chief Inspector or any Inspector may make such examination and
inquiries as he thinks fit in order to ascertain whether the provisions of this Act or of any rules and orders
made thereunder are being complied with.

 (2) The Chief Inspector or any Inspector may, with such assistance, if any, as he thinks fit, enter,
inspect and examine at any time by day or night any coal mine in order to ensure that stowing or any
other operation has been, or is being, done effectively:

 Provided that the power conferred by this sub-section shall not be exercised in such a manner as
unreasonably to impede or obstruct the working of the mine.

 (3) Without prejudice to the provisions of the Mines Act, 1952 (35 of 1952), the Chief Inspector or
any Inspector may, by order in writing, addressed to the owner, agent or manager of a coal mine, require
him to take such protective measures, including stowing, in the mine as the Chief Inspector or the
Inspector may think necessary, if in the opinion of the Chief Inspector or Inspector—

(a) the extraction or reduction of pillars in any part of the coal mine is likely to cause the crushing
of pillars or the premature collapse of any part of the workings or otherwise endanger human life or
the coal mine or a railway, or

(b) adequate provision against the outbreak of fire or flooding has not been made by providing for
the sealing off and isolation of any part of the coal mine or for restricting the area that might be
affected by fire or flooding as the case may be.

 (4) The powers conferred on the Inspector under sub-sections (/), (2) and (3) may also be exercised
by such officer of the Central Government as that Government may, by notification, specify in this behalf.

 CHAPTER III
DISSOLUTION OF THE COAL BOARD AND TRANSFER OF EMPOLYEES THEREOF

12. Dissolution of the Coal Board.—(/) On the appointed day, the Coal Board, established under
section 4 of the Coal Mines (Conservation, Safety and Development) Act, 1952 (12 of 1952), shall stand
dissolved.

 (2) On the dissolution of the Coal Board,—

(a) all rights and privileges of the Coal Board shall become the rights and privileges, respectively,
of the Central Government;

(b) the Central Government shall be deemed to be the lessee of all properties held by the Coal
Board, immediately before the appointed day, under any lease and that Government shall hold the
lease under the same terms and conditions under which the lease was held by the Coal Board;

(c) all other properties, movable and immovable, including cash balances, reserve funds,
investments and moneys lying to the credit of the Coal Mines Safety and Conservation Fund and the
Coal Development Fund, and all other rights and interests in, or arising out of, such properties as
were, immediately before the appointed day, in the ownership, possession power or control of the
Coal Board, and all books of account, registers, records and all other documents of whatever nature
relating thereto, shall vest in the Central Government;

(d) all borrowings, liabilities and obligations of the Coal Board, of whatever kind and subsisting
immediately before the appointed day, shall be deemed, on and from the appointed day to be the
borrowings, liabilities or obligations, as the case may be, of the Central Government;

(e) all contracts entered into, and all matters and things engaged to be done by, with or for, the
Coal Board and subsisting immediately before the appointed day, shall be deemed, on and from the
appointed day, to have been entered into or engaged to be done by, with or for, the Central
Government;
(f) all licences and permits granted to the Coal Board and in force immediately before the
appointed day shall be deemed, on and from the appointed day, to have been granted to the Central
Government and shall have effect accordingly. 

13. Power of Central Government to direct vesting of rights in a Government company. —
Notwithstanding anything contained in section 12, the Central Government may, if it is satisfied that a
Central Government company is willing to comply, or has complied with such terms and conditions as
that Government may think fit to impose, direct, by an order in writing, that the right, title and interest of
the Coal Board in relation to any property shall, instead of continuing to vest in it, vest in the Government
company either on the date of publication of the direction or on such earlier or later date (not being a date
earlier than the appointed day) as may be specified in the direction, and on such vesting the liability or
obligation, as the case may be, of the Coal Board in relation to such property shall, instead of continuing
to be the liability or obligation of the Central Government, become the liability or obligation, as the case
may be, of the Government company.

 14. Continuation of suits, etc., against the Central Government.—(/) If, on the appointed day, any
suit, appeal or other proceeding of whatever nature in relation to the Coal Board is pending by or against
such Board, the same shall not abate, be discontinued or be in any way prejudicially affected by reason of
the dissolution of the Coal Board; but the suit appeal or other proceeding may be continued, prosecuted
and enforced by or against the Central Government or the Government company in which the property of
the Coal Board has become vested, as the case may be.

 (2) Where, before the appointed day, any cause of action for any suit or proceeding or any right to
appeal arose in favour of, or against, the Coal Board, and the institution of any suit or proceeding on such
cause of action or the filing of such appeal was not barred before the appointed day, such suit or
proceeding may be instituted or appeal may be filed by or against the Central Government or the
Government company referred to in sub-section (/), as the case may be.

 15. Transfer of service of existing employees of Coal Board.—(/) Notwithstanding anything
contained in any other law for the time being in force or in any contract to the contrary, every officer or
other employee of the Coal Board shall, on and from the appointed day, become an officer or other
employee, as the case may be, of such Government company or organisation as the Central Government
may, in writing, specify and shall hold his office or service in such Government company or organisation,
as the case may be, on the same terms and conditions and with the same rights to pension, gratuity and
other matters as would have been admissible to him if the Coal Board had not been abolished, and shall
continue to do so unless and until his employment in the Government company or organisation is
terminated or until his remuneration or terms and conditions of service are duly altered by the
Government company or organisation, as the case may be :

Provided that the tenure, remuneration and other terms and conditions of service of any such officer
or other employee shall not be altered to his disadvantage except with the previous approval of the
Central Government or without such approval, except as a measure of punishment, under the rules of the
Government company or the organisation concerned.

 (2) Where any officer or other employee of the Coal Board becomes, under sub-section (/), an officer
or other employee of any Government company or organisation, the period of service rendered, or
deemed to have been rendered, by him under the Coal Board before the appointed day shall be deemed,
for the purposes of fixation of pay and other emoluments, pension and other retirement benefits, to be the
period of service rendered by him under the said Government company or organisation, as the case may
be, as if the Government company or the organisation were in existence during the said period.

 16. No compensation to be paid for the transfer of services of any officer or other employee. —
Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, the transfer of the
services of any officer or other employee from the Coal Board to any Government company or
organisation shall not entitle such officer or other employee to any compensation under this Act or under
any other law for the time being in force and no such claim shall be entertained by any court, tribunal or
other authority.
 CHAPTER IV
MISCELLANEOUS

17. Protection of action taken in good faith.—No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall
lie against the Central Government or against the Chairman or any other member of the Coal Board or
any officer thereof or any other person in respect of anything which is in good faith done or intended to be
done in pursuance of this Act or of any rules or orders made thereunder, or in pursuance of the Coal
Mines (Conservation, Safety and Development) Act, 1952 (12 of 1952) or any rule made thereunder.

 18. Power to make rules.—(/) The Central Government may, by notification and subject to the
condition of previous publication, make rules to carry out the provisions of this Act.

 (2) Without prejudice to the generality of the forgoing power such rules may provide for all or any of
the following matters, namely:—

(a) the measures to be taken for the purpose of conservation of coal and maintenance of safety in
coal mines;

(b) the measures to be taken for the development of coal mines;

(c) the manner in which, and the conditions subject to which, sums at the credit of the Coal Mine 
Conservation and Development Account may be applied;

(d) the form in which the Coal Mine Conservation and Development Account shall be kept;
(e) any other matter which is required to be, or may be, prescribed.

 (3) Any rule made under the provisions of this Act may provide that the contravention thereof shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months, or with fine which may
extend to two thousand rupees, or with both.

 (4) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House
of Parliament while it is in session for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session
or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the
sessions or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or
both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

 19.[Repeal.] Rep. by Repealing and Amending Act, 1978 (38 of 1978), s. 2 and the First Schedule
(w.e.f. 26-11-1978).
 F.No.13011/2/2020-CBA2-Part(2)/P&S-II
Government of India

Ministry of Coal
RREKKKE
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi
Dated the October, 2022
BN
ORDER

Subject: Methodology for Auction of Coal Mines/Blocks for sale of coal under the
Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 and the Mines and Minerals
(Development and Regulation) Act, 1957.

 The undersigned is directed to refer to Orders dated 28.05.2020 and 24.11.2021
(copy enclosed) on the subject mentioned above and to say that on the recommendations
of the Empowered Committee of Secretaries, the Central Government has approved the
following modification in the methodology for auction of coal mines/blocks identified
under the relevant Act for sale of coal as mentioned in para 2 below:

2. The para 2.1.5 (A) of Order dated 28.05.2020 on the subject mentioned above shall
stand modified as under:-

Upfront Amount:

(A) The Upfront Amount shall be calculated at 0.20% of the value of estimated
geological reserves of the coal mine. Value of estimated geological reserves shall be
equal to the product of the following:

(1) estimated quantity of geological reserves in the coal mine, and
(ii) the representative price of relevant grade(s) of coal referred in para 2.1.3
(A)(iii)(a) of OM of even number dated 28.05.2020.

 However, the upfront amount payable shall be as per actual calculation as per above
method or as per ceiling mentioned here below, whichever is lower:-

Geological Reserves in mine (MT) Upper ceiling of Upfront Amount
(Rs. er)

 [Upto 200 To

[Above 200 [500

3. All other terms & conditions will remain the same.

 This issues with the approval of Competent Authority.

(Rishan Ryhtathiang)

Under Secretary to the Govt. of India
Tel. 23073936

 To,
(1) Additional Secretary & Nominated Authority, Ministry of Coal

(2) Director (NA)/Director (P&S-I/P&S-ID
Copy to:

1. PS to Hon'ble Minister of Coal

2. PSO to Secretary (Coal)

3. PPS to AS (Coal)

4. PPS to AS (MN)& NA

5. STD, NIC, Ministry of Coal......for uploading on the website of Ministry.
 File No.CBA2-13011/2/2020-CBA2-Part(2)

F.No.13011/2/2020-CBA2-Part (2)/P&S-II
Government of India

Ministry of Coal
RRKKKK
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi
Dated the 24th November, 2021
ORDER

Subject: Methodology for Auction of Coal Mines/Blocks for sale of coal under the Coal
Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 and the Mines and Minerals (Development and
Regulation) Act, 1957.

 The undersigned is directed to refer to Order dated 28.05.2020 (Copy enclosed) on the
subject mentioned above and to say that on the recommendation of Empowered Committee of
Secretaries, the Central Government has approved the following modification in the
methodology for auction of coal mines/blocks identified under the relevant Act for sale of
coal as mentioned in para 2 below:

2. The para 2.1.4 (b) of Order dated 28.05.2020 (Copy enclosed) on the subject mentioned
above shall stand modified as under:

Gasification or Liquefaction of coal: If the successful bidder consumes the coal
produced either in its own plant(s) or plant of its holding, subsidiary, affiliate, associate for
coal gasification or liquefaction or sells the coal for coal gasification or liquefaction process, a
rebate of 50% on the percentage revenue share quoted by the successful bidder will be
allowed on the total quantity of coal consumed or sold or both for gasification or liquefaction
on an yearly basis, subject to the following conditions:

(i) At least 10% of scheduled coal production as per approved mining plan for that year shall
be consumed or sold for gasification or liquefaction;
(ii) that Coal Controller’s certification would be required for the quantity of coal consumed or

sold or both for gasification or liquefaction.

 3. The aforesaid modification shall be applicable for ongoing and successive tranches of
auction for sale of coal.

 4. All other terms of Order dated 28.05.2020 shall remain the same.

 This issues with the approval of Competent Authority.

 Encl: As above

(Byasadev Naik)
Deputy Director (P&S-II)
Tel. 23070378
 To

(1) The Nominated Authority, Ministry of Coal
File No.CBA2-13011/2/2020-CBA2-Part(2)

(2) JS (P&S), Ministry of Coal

(3) Director (CLD), Ministry of Coal

Copy to:

. PS to Hon'ble Minister of Coal

. PSO to Secretary (Coal)

. PPS to AS (Coal)

. PPS to AS (MN) & NA

. PPS to JS (P&S)

. DS (NA)/DS (P&S-II/P&S-I)

. STD, NIC, Ministry of Coal......for uploading on the website of Ministry.

 NOU RWN EH

Signed by Byasadev Naik
Date: 24-11-2021 16:57:55
Reason: Approved
238
228824(12)/2020/CBA-II

F.No.13011/2/2020-CBA2-Part(2)
Government of India
Ministry of Coal
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi
202
Dated the oatMay, 020

ORDER

Subject: Methodology for Auction of Coal Mines/Blocks for sale of coal under the Coal
Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 and the Mines and Minerals (Development and
Regulation) Act, 1957.

 The undersigned is directed to refer to Rule 8 (2) and 8 (3) of the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Rules, 2014 read with Section 8 (5) of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act,
2015 and Rule 3(1) (d) of the Coal Blocks Allocation Rules, 2017 read with Section 11A of
the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 and to say that the
Competent Authority has approved the methodology for auction of coal mines/blocks
identified under the relevant Act for sale of coal as mentioned in para 2 below:

21 Methodology and other conditions for auction of coal mines for sale of coal:-

2.1.1 Applicability: It shall be applicable on auction of all fully explored coal blocks/mines
(categorised in G-1 exploration stage as per the modified Indian Standard Procedure for Coal
Resource estimation, 2017) and partially explored coal blocks/mines (categorised in G-2 or
G-3 exploration stage) for sale of coal under the CMSP Act and MMDR Act. The
Methodology and other conditions shall also be applicable on lignite blocks, mutatis
mutandis.

 2.1.2 Bid Parameter: The bid parameter will be revenue share for both fully explored coal
mines (categorised in G-1 exploration stage) and partially explored coal mines (categorised in
G-2 or G-3 exploration stage). The auction will be an ascending forward auction where the
bidders would be required to bid for a percentage share of revenue which would be payable to
the State Government. The floor percentage of revenue share shall be 4%. The bid increments
will be accepted in multiples of 0.5 % of revenue share till the percentage (%) of revenue
share reaches 10% and thereafter, bid increments will be accepted in multiples of 0.25% of
revenue share. The bidder that submits the highest percentage (%) of revenue share in the
bidding shall be declared the preferred bidder.

 2.1.3 Revenue share payable:

(A) The successful bidder shall be required to pay revenue share on monthly basis which
shall be determined as product of:

(i) percentage (%) of revenue share (final bid) quoted by the successful bidder;

(ii) total quantity of coal on which the statutory royalty is payable during the month; and
(iii) notional price or actual price, whichever is higher, where

XQ Page 1 of 5
239
228824(12)/2020/CBA-II
(a) ‘notional price’ refers to the price arrived at after adjusting the representative price with
sub-index of NCI of relevant basket of coal grade(s) on the date on which royalty becomes
payable, where ‘representative price’ is product of-

(1) weights (volume of coal in different components of notified price, auction price and
imported price channels) of base year, and
(2) prices of these components at the time of issuance of tender, and

(b) ‘actual price’ refers to the sale invoice value of coal, net of statutory dues including taxes,
levies, royalty, NMET, DMF, etc.

 (B) In addition to revenue share, other statutory dues including taxes, levies, royalty, NMET,
DMF, etc. shall be payable under applicable laws.

 2.1.4 Incentives in revenue sharing model in certain events:
The successful bidder shall be provided with incentives in the following events:
(a) Early production:

(i) In case of fully explored blocks, a rebate of 50% on revenue share quoted by the
successful bidder would be allowed, till the scheduled date of production as per the
production schedule given in the tender document, for the quantity of coal produced earlier
than such scheduled date of production.

 (ii) In case of partially explored blocks, a rebate of 50% on revenue share quoted by
successful bidder would be allowed, till the scheduled date of production, for the quantity of
coal produced earlier than the scheduled date of production given in the approved mining
plan.

 (iii) Statutory dues including taxes, levies, royalty, NMET, DMF, etc. shall be payable as per
law. No exemption would be given to the successful bidder from obtaining any approval etc.
under applicable laws required for start of production.

 (b) Gasification or Liquefaction of coal: If the successful bidder consumes the coal
produced either in its own plant(s) or plant of its holding, subsidiary, affiliate, associate for
coal gasification or liquefaction or sells the coal for coal gasification or liquefaction process,
a rebate of 20% on the percentage revenue share quoted by the successful bidder will be
allowed on the total quantity of coal consumed or sold or both for gasification or liquefaction
on an yearly basis, subject to the following conditions:

(i) At least 10% of scheduled coal production as per approved mining plan for that year shall
be consumed or sold for gasification or liquefaction;

(ii) that Coal Controller’s certification would be required for the quantity of coal consumed or
sold or both for gasification or liquefaction.

 (c) Empowered Committee of Secretaries may review and determine the incentives on
revenue share from time to time.

 2.1.5 Upfront Amount:

(A) The Upfront Amount shall be calculated at 0.25% of the value of estimated geological
reserves of the coal mine. Value of estimated geological reserves shall be equal to the product

of the following:
XID Page 2 of 5

240
228824(12)/2020/CBA-II

(i) estimated quantity of geological reserves in the coal mine, and
(ii) the representative price of relevant grade(s) of coal referred in para 2.1.3
(A)(iii)(a) above.

 However, the upfront amoun t payable shall be as per actual calculation as per above method
or as per ceiling mentioned here below, whichever is lower:-

Geological Reserves in mine (MT) Upper ceiling of Upfront Amount
(Rs. cr)

 Upto 200 100

Above 200 500

(B) The ceilings are calculated as per prevalent market conditions and the same is liable to be
revised in case there is substantial upward/downward change in market conditions by
Empowered Committee of Secretaries.

 (C) The Successful Bidder shall have the option to get the Upfront Amount adjusted against
the revenue share payable subject to the condition that such adjustment of upfront amount
shall not exceed 50% of the revenue share payable in the year.

 (D) The Upfront Amount shall be payable by the successful bidder in 4 equal installments as
provided in the tender document.

 2.1.6 Sale and/or Utilisation of Coal

There shall be no restriction on the sale and/ or utilisation of coal from the coal mine. The
successful bidder shall be free to sell coal in any manner as may be decided by the successful
bidder including sale to affiliates and related parties, utilise coal for any purpose including
but not limited to captive consumption, gasification, liquefaction and export of coal.

 2.1.7 Flexibility in Coal Production

(A) The successful bidder shall produce coal not below 65% of the scheduled production as
per approved mine plan in a year subject to the condition that the successful bidder shall not
produce coal less than 75% of the scheduled production as per approved mine plan in any
block of three years. The three-year block shall be counted from the first financial year of
scheduled commencement of production in the coal mine.

 (B) Revenue share payable to the Government in case of shortfall in coal production in
a financial year:

(i) In the event the annual coal production is less than 65% of the scheduled production in
any financial year, the successful bidder shall be required to pay the revenue share (for both,
coal produced and shortfall) so that the total revenue share paid is equal to 65% of scheduled
coal production for that financial year.

 (ii) In such cases, the annual revenue share payable for the shortfall quantity (65% of
scheduled coal production Jess the quantity of coal on which the statutory royalty is paid)
shall be computed on the basis of notional price.

 (C) Revenue share payable to the Government in case of shortfall in coal production in
a block of three financial years:

(i) Further, in event the coal production in a block of three financial years is less than 75% of
the scheduled production for that block, the successful bidder shall be required to pay the
revenue share (for both, coal produced and shortfall) so that the total revenue share paid is
equal to 75% of scheduled coal production for that block of three financial years.

 “Rell —

Page 3 of 5
241
228824(12)/2020/CBA-II
(ii) In such cases, the revenue share payable for the shortfall quantity (75% of scheduled coal
production of three years Jess the quantity of coal on which the statutory royalty is paid in
three years) shall be computed on the basis of notional price.
 (D) However, statutory dues including taxes, levies, royalty, NMET, DMF, etc. shall be
payable as per the applicable law.

 2.1.8 Exploitation of Coal Bed Methane

 In case there is presence of coal bed methane (CBM) in the coal mine, the successful
bidder may also commercially exploit the CBM present in the mining lease area and shall
approach the Directorate General of Hydrocarbon (DGH) for its technical approval followed
by the grant of CBM mining lease by respective State Government. In addition to monthly
revenue share payable for coal, the successful bidder shall also make payments of monthly
revenue share for CBM based on same percentage revenue share quoted (final bid) by it
during auction of coal mine. Other mechanisms with regard to arriving at the price of CBM
shall be governed by the applicable Policy issued by M/o Petroleum and Natural Gas being
the administrative Ministry.

 2.1.9 Relinquishment of the block

A successful bidder of a partially explored coal block shall be permitted to relinquish
the coal block on meeting the conditions given in the tender documents.

 2.1.10 Other terms and conditions/ modalities of auction including eligibility criteria shall be
decided by the M/o Coal.

 2.1.11 Existing CCEA approved methodologies applicable on allotment of coal mines under
the CMSP Act shall be applicable on allotment of blocks under the MMDR Act.

 2.1.12 No limit on number of coal mines or reserves or any other parameter regarding
production of coal or any combination thereof that can be allocated to a company or its
affiliate company, associate company, holding company or subsidiary is to be imposed in the
first tranche of auction for sale of coal. Based on the learnings, suitable limits in subsequent
tranches of auction may be placed as per decision /recommendation of an Empowered
Committee of Secretaries.

 2.1.13 The CCEA approved methodology dated 27.02.2018 for auction of coal mines for sale
of coal shall stand modified to the extent covered in the proposal.

 2.2 A National Coal Index (NCI) along with its sub-indices of relevant basket of coal grades
shall be developed in accordance with 2nd report of High Power Expert Committee (HPEC)
with following modifications:

I. NCI shall be computed on bi-monthly basis.

 II. Bifurcation of the coking coal into two parts: Steel Grade, into which the price of the
imported component of coking coal would be included and second the Washery Grade
(consisting of W-1, 2, 3 and 4), in which there would be no import component. Rest
of the Coking Coal, ie. W-5 and W-6 may be treated as the corresponding Grade of
Non-Coking Coal.

III. Revenue Share Payable: As proposed in para 2.1.3 above.

 CA Page 4 of 5
; 242
228824(12)/2020/CBA-II
2.3 With the approval of Competent Authority, an Empowered Committee of Secretaries has
been constituted vide OM of even number dated 28.05.2020 to deliberate and decide/
recommend on the miscellaneous terms and conditions for successive rounds of auction and

also on the operationalisation aspects of coal mines as detailed in the OM dated 28.05.2020
referred to in this para.

 2.4 Increasing the tenure of coking coal linkage

The coking coal linkage in the non-regulated sector linkage auction may be granted
for a tenure upto 30 years.

 This issues with the approval of Competent Authority.

(Rishan Ryhtathiang)
 Under Secretary to the Govt. of India
Tel. 23384104
 To
(1) The Nominated Authority, Ministry of Coal
(2) JS (BPP), Ministry of Coal: For appropriate necessary action in respect of auction of
coal mines under the relevant provisions of the MMDR Act, 1957 and Rules made

there under.

 (3) Director (CLD), Ministry of Coal

Copy to:
1. PS to Hon'ble Minister of Coal
2. PSO to Secretary (Coal)
3. PPS to AS (Coal)
4. PPS to JS (MN)/ PPS to JS (RKS)/PS to JS (BPP)
5. DS (NA)/DS (CBA-ID/DS(CBA-I)
6. STD, NIC, Ministry of Coal......for uploading on the website of Ministry.

 Page 5 of 5
raft a. f.ua.- 33004/99 REGD. No. D. L.-33004/99

Sitd sx Vista
Che Gazette of Gndia

Ht. -S1. Vet.-31.-07092022-238638
CG-DL-E-07092022-238638

HATATT
EXTRAORDINARY
art Il—eve 3— 3y-aue (i)
PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (i)

rfeare & searferet
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

a. 605] ae favett, qerare, fraeax 7, 2022/aTH 16, 1944
No. 605] NEW DELHI, WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2022/BHADRA 16, 1944

HTAT HATA
afer

ae facet, 7 frarax, 2022
ar.ar. fA. 684(a4).—ara az aft (farare atc fafa) afaan, arferfa1957 (1957 aT 67)
 AT AT 13 are Va afeeat HT TANT HU BU, He aca Utror ara raz, 1960 F are Aetterst Het
fer wager fraferfee fae sarc z, sata:-
1. afer are aire orear- (1) Sat Peat ar attr Parra (Aetteart) FAH, HET GT AMAT Sl
(2) FAT HUTT F STH THe AT aS A ATT SAT
2. aft Parra fray, 1960 4 (seen are Her FT ST A STAT Ga @) , FTA 64 & F-
(i) greg aterer wftera” Feary Ie aes Where” sree Tear ite aw TT
(ii) eg HT TSA fet” apr ATT He FeAT STOTT
3. We fran Fy, frre 64a F, cect Wega & are, Prefered vege ata: cartta fear are, stata:
 aad Pe Tet WH Hh Ted ATA AT Te re Mt craeet Praterad F areas ae aaah H alt

(%) THAT A Ae TA -ATH - ATS HAT AT frase H Te AT thas ATT, sta

5971 GI/2022 (1)
2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(@) Wor ar soso At are Uz, SAT aT ST, HITT TS aT ass frase Baar Ft ora
arene & usta aren waar AT tha aT,
ora aft arse St, ate darrat Bt aa a Ha aed Hr aaa ar wears ar afaeen trae FT
are ta aaratiert & arare ae At Sash"
ae fran 4H, wear XI carat oe, fraferfaa seara witerfte Peo srr: —
“HeaTa-XI
a

76- eS — (1) Hrs ft af oT fae 7 Sara (1),(2) sire (3), rarer 14 & oa-fAaa (1), (2) az
(3), frarr 16, safe (1) site (2), Frat 18,19, 22%, fra 22(s.) ar sata (1), fare 225,
fram 27 & sr-fAaH (1),(2) ate (3), raat 27% siz 29%, fra 37 ar oa-faaa (1), fraat 405,
42, 44 4 51, frre 62 ar sa-frae (1), Frat 66, 66m ate 72 aT Serra He Z, TT Ta We aT
Uet TH BATA AT IT ATS STA TH Bh ATA aera stat ara shea fear a aaa Saiz
ma Sects aaa FH, ale Wa sectors fre atch sears ost are fh We Sees TT
tem 2 ot afatter Sata aera TT HT ST Wee fer & fre Tare Soe ST aH ST HT SI”
(2) are ft orf ott frat 20,214, fara 22a % safiaa (1), (2), (4), (5) ate (6), FaaT 32,
33, 37% at 40, fram 40e & sa-fram (1) Gat Tes, Pare 61, site 64H aT BeetTT HATZ,
al a We TPT are Sa TH SS TTT AT TZ, SR TTT Sects UT HY, aS VA See
& foro art secre art ara oft War sects TA teat S aT afaheen Fata TT ST HT ZT
were fer fee Tara BSMe B. TH ST THAT Sl”

 [AT. #. 12012/2/2021-Fiva1]

TH. ATT, ATE aT

fromft: ga fae area ® sa, ATT Il, SS 3, S-SE (i) F Fer aarAA. 1398, feats 23 aaax,

1960 #T vearfora fear war at sie 1 area, 2021 FT Aer ara. 717 (%) are fear
sarees Fea TWAT ATI

MINISTRY OF COAL
NOTIFICATION
New Delhi, the 7th September, 2022

G.S.R. 684(E).—In exercise of powers conferred by section 13 of the Mines and Minerals (Development and

Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules further to amend the
Mineral Concession Rules, 1960, namely: —

1. Short title and commencement.—(1) These rules may be called the Mineral Concession (Amendment)
Rules, 2022.

 (2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
 2. Inthe Mineral Concession Rules, 1960 (hereinafter referred to as principal rules), in rule 64A4,—
(i) for the words “twenty four per cent”, the words “twelve per cent.” shall be substituted;

(ii) the words “the sixtieth day of” shall be omitted.

 3. In the principal rules, in rule 64B, after the first proviso, the following proviso shall be inserted, namely: —
[art Wave 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA 3

Note :

“Provided further that any royalty paid under the first proviso shall be subject to adjustment on the basis of-
(a) final declaration of the grade of run-of-mine coal or lignite after sampling; or

(b) final declaration of the National Coal Index of the relevant basket of coal grade or National Lignite
Index, as applicable, on the date of dispatch or consumption,

as the case may be, and payment of shortfall royalty to the lessor or refund of additional royalty to the
lessee shall be made based on such adjustment.”.

 In the principal rules, for CHAPTER XI, the following CHAPTER shall be substituted, namely: —
“CHAPTER XI
Penalty

76. Penalty.- (1) Any person who contravenes sub rules (1),(2) and (3) of rule 7, sub-rules (1), (2) and (3) of
rule 14, sub-rules(1) and (2) of rule 16, rules 18, 19, 22A, sub-rule (1) of rule 22 (E), rule 22F, sub-rules  (1),
(2) and (3) of rule 27, rules 27A and 29A, sub-rule(1) of rule 37, rules 40D, 42, 44 to 51, sub-rule (1) of rule
62, rules 66, 66A and 72 shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years or
with fine which may extend to five lakh rupees, or with both, and in the case of continuing contravention,
with additional fine which may extend to fifty thousand rupees for every day during which such
contravention continues after conviction for such contravention.

 (2) Any person who contravenes rules 20, 21B, sub-rules (1), (2), (4), (5) and (6) of rule 22B, rules 32, 33,
37A and 40B, second proviso to sub-rule (1) of rule 40E, rules61 and 64Ashall be punishable with fine which
may extend to five lakhs rupees, and in the case of a continuing contravention, with additional fine which
may extend to fifty thousand rupees for every day during which such contravention continues after conviction
for such contravention.”.

 [F. No. 12012/2/2021-PS1]
M. NaGaraju, Addl. Secy.

 The principal rules were published in the Gazette of India, Part I, Section 3, Sub-section (i) vide number
G.S.R. 1398, dated the 23" November, 1960 and lastly amended vide number G.S.R 717(E) dated the
1“ October, 2021.

 Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054. wows

Pat Ao Sto Ueto-33004/99 REGD. NO. D. L.-33004/99

Che Gazette of India

STATANUT
EXTRAORDINARY
art Il—avs 3—sy-Wus (ii)
PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (ii)

wit & venfira
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

a 888] ad facet, qeafaan, are 30, 2017/aa 9, 1939
 No. 888] NEW DELHI, THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 2017/CHAITRA 9, 1939
 Brae FATT
aREAAT
ae facet, 30 art, 2017
ra. 997(4). — Fae are (faera Soater) afer, 2015 Ft are 7 At Sa-aret (2) are vad
RHA HT TAT HLS ST aly ATH Se ahearhare FT aI F Prerterfas setters Het S, TAT:

ATI F, #. 4. 75 site aetaet wfafteat & are freafefad wa dear aie vfafteat aret
sraft, Tat:

wa. | BAT GTa/sath FT ae orator aT usa Bret arse

aA arasata fer =

“7g | athe fefererar eel area feraes, aT ara Ue eftea aot ferfaes | ATES

77. «| ata Oo am | arcave tte Praca Saerade ator aregue
anrax

7g~=«| watfee ari aregue tte Praca saaade stators fae aIegue

79 | Sarat Riza ca te otax faites, Tae sear ts wash Paes | He Tet

80. (| Hayfeet eat crate fares ayrgre”

[RT. 4. 13016/9/2014-4TT-I1I (ATeTA-II)]
usta Bare Pee, AE ART

1785 GI/2017 qd)

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY

[PART II—SECc. 3(ii)]

MINISTRY OF COAL
NOTIFICATION
New Delhi, the 30th March, 2017

S.O. 997(E).—In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of Section 7 of the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Act, 2015, the Central Government hereby makes the following modification in Sc!
namely:—

In Schedule III, after seria

be added, namely:—

No. 75 and the entries relating therto, the following serial

hedule III of the said Act,

numbers and entries shall

Sl. Name of Coal Name of Prior Allottee State where Coal Mine/
No. Mine/Block Block Located
“76. | Choritand Tiliaya Rungta Mines Limited, Sunflag Iron & Steel Co. Ltd. Jharkhand

77. Jogeshwar & Khas Jharkhand State Mineral Development Corporation Jharkhand

Jogeshwar

28. Rabodih OCP Jharkhand State Mineral Development Corporation Ltd. Jharkhand

79. Urtan North Jindal Steel & Power Ltd., Monet Ispat and Energy Ltd. Madhya Pradesh
80. Brahmadiha Castron Technologies Ltd. Jharkhand”

 [F. No.13016/9/2014-CA-III (Vol.IID]
RAJESH KUMAR SINHA, Jt. Secy.

Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi- 110064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi- 110054.

 taret de Ste Wee—(TA)04/0007/2003—20 REGISTERED NO. DL—(N)04/0007/2003—20

JIRNd «a Usa
The Gazette of Gudia

aloft. -S1.Ue.-31.-14032020-218655
CG-DL-E-14032020-218655

AMAT
EXTRAORDINARY
aw WI— ers 1
PART II — Section 1
wiferear & wentfera
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

we 9) ag fereil, Yama, APS 13, 2020/ HIST 23, 1941 (aH)
 No. 9] NEW DELHI, FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2020/PHALGUNA 23, 1941 (SAKA)

 Fa amt 4 fr Gs Gen wae @ fara fee ae Sem Gael H eT A Ta Tae

Separate paging is given to this Part in order that it may be filed as a separate compilation.

 MINISTRY OF LAW AND JUSTICE
(Legislative Department)

New Delhi, the 13th March, 2020/Phalguna 23, 1941 (Saka)

 The following Act of Parliament received the assent of the President on the
13th March, 2020, and is hereby published for general information: —

THE MINERAL LAWS (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2020

No. 2 oF 2020
[13th March, 2020.]

 An Acct further to amend the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation)
Act, 1957 and to amend the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015.

 BE it enacted by Parliament in the Seventy-first Year of the Republic of India as
follows:—

CHAPTER I
PRELIMINARY

1. (1) This Act may be called the Mineral Laws (Amendment) Act, 2020.
 (2) It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 10th day of January, 2020.

 (3) Without prejudice to the effect of the amendments made by this Acct, it shall remain
in force for a period of sixty days from the date of assent by the President and shall be
deemed to have been repealed after the expiry of the said period.

 Short title,
commencement
and operation.
 Insertion of
new section
4B.

Conditions
for efficiency
in production.

 Amendment
of section 5.

 Amendment
of section 8A.

Insertion of

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Parr II—

CHAPTER II

AMENDMENTS TO THE MINES AND MINERALS
(DEVELOPMENT AND REGULATION) AcT, 1957

2. In the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (hereafter in

this Chapter referred to as the principal Act), after section 4A, the following section shall be
inserted, namely:—

"4B. Notwithstanding anything contained in section 4A, the Central Government
may, in the interest of maintaining sustained production of minerals in the country,
prescribe such conditions as may be necessary for commencement and continuation
of production by the holders of mining leases who have acquired rights, approvals,
clearances and the like under section 8B.".

 3. In section 5 of the principal Act, in sub-section (/), after the proviso, the following

proviso shall be inserted, namely:—

"Provided further that the previous approval of the Central Government shall
not be required for grant of reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining
lease in respect of the minerals specified in Part A of the First Schedule, where,—

(i) an allocation order has been issued by the Central Government under
section 11A; or

(ii) a notification of reservation of area has been issued by the Central
Government or the State Government under sub-section (/A) or sub-section (2)
of section 17A; or

(iii) a vesting order or an allotment order has been issued by the Central
Government under the provisions of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions)
Act, 2015.".

 4. In section 8A of the principal Act, in sub-section (4), the following proviso shall be

inserted, namely:—

"Provided that nothing contained in this section shall prevent the State
Governments from taking an advance action for auction of the mining lease before the
expiry of the lease period.".

 5. After section 8A of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted,

new section 8B. namely:—

Provisions for
transfer of
statutory
clearances.

 "8B. (1) The provisions of this section shall apply to minerals, other than the
minerals specified in Part A and Part B of the First Schedule.

 (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other law for the
time being in force, the successful bidder of mining leases expiring under the provisions
of sub-sections (5) and (6) of section 8A and selected through auction as per the
procedure provided under this Act and the rules made thereunder, shall be deemed to
have acquired all valid rights, approvals, clearances, licences and the like vested with
the previous lessee for a period of two years:

Provided that subject to such conditions as may be prescribed, such new
lessee shall apply and obtain all necessary rights, approvals, clearances, licences and
the like within a period of two years from the date of grant of new lease.

 (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, it shall be lawful for the new lessee to continue mining operations on the land,
in which mining operations were being carried out by the previous lessee, for a period
of two years from the date of commencement of the new lease.".

 67 of 1957.

 11 of 2015.
 Sec. 1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 3

6. In section 10C of the principal Act, in sub-section (2), the following shall be Amendment

inserted, namely:— of
section 10C.

"Provided that the holder of non-exclusive reconnaissance permit who carries
out the prescribed level of exploration in respect of deep seated minerals or such
minerals as may be notified by the Central Government, may submit an application to
the State Government for the grant of any prospecting licence-cum-mining lease as
per the procedure laid down under section 11 or a mining lease as per the procedure
laid down under section 10B and with a view to increase the reconnaissance and
prospecting operations of such minerals, the Central Government shall prescribe
such procedure, including the bidding parameters for selection of such holders.

 Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-section, the expression "deep
seated minerals" means such minerals which occur at a depth of more than three
hundred meters from the surface of land with poor surface manifestations.".
 7. In section 11A of the principal Act,— Amendment

of
(i) in the marginal heading, after the words "or mining lease", the words "or section 11A.

prospecting licence-cum-mining lease in respect of coal or lignite" shall be inserted;
(ii) in sub-section (7)}—
(a) in the opening portion, for the words "in respect of any area containing

coal or lignite", the words "or prospecting licence-cum-mining lease in respect
of coal or lignite" shall be substituted;

(b) for the long line, the following long line shall be substituted, namely:—

"to carry on coal or lignite reconnaissance or prospecting or mining
operations, for own consumption, sale or for any other purpose as may
be determined by the Central Government";

(c) the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:—

"Provided that the auction by competitive bidding under this
section shall not be applicable to coal or lignite—

(a) where such area is considered for allotment to a
Government company or corporation or a joint venture company
formed by such company or corporation or between the Central
Government or the State Government, as the case may be, for own
consumption, sale or for any other purpose as may be determined
by the Central Government;

(b) where such area is considered for allotment to a company
or corporation that has been awarded a power project on the basis
of competitive bid for tariff (including Ultra Mega Power Projects). ";

(iii) in sub-section (3),—
(a) after the words "mining lease", the words "or prospecting
licence-cum-mining lease" shall be inserted;

(b) for the words "competitive bidding or otherwise", the words
"competitive bidding or through allotment" shall be substituted.

 8. In section 13 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2),— Amendment
f
(7) after clause (a), the following clauses shall be inserted, namely:— ection 13.

 "(aa) the conditions as may be necessary for commencement and
continuation of production by the holders of minin g leases, under section 4B;

(ab) the conditions to be fulfilled by the new lessee for obtaining all
necessary rights, approvals, clearances, licences and the like under the proviso
to sub-section (2) of section 8B;
4 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Parr II—

(ac) the level of exploration in respect of deep seated minerals or such
minerals and the procedure, including the bidding parameters for selection of
the holders under the proviso to sub-section (2) of section 10C;";

(ii) for clause (d), the following clauses shall be substituted, namely:—

"(d) the terms, conditions and process of auction by competitive bidding
and allotment in respect of coal or lignite;

(da) the regulation of grant of reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence,
mining lease or prospecting licence-cum-mining lease in respect of coal or
lignite;

(db) the details of mines and their location, the minimum size of such

mines and such other conditions which may be necessary for the purpose of
coal or lignite reconnaissance, prospecting or mining operations;

(dc) utilisation of coal or lignite including mining for sale by a company;".

 Amendment of 9. In section 17A of the principal Act, in sub-section (2A), in the proviso, the words
section 17A. _ and letter "Part A and" shall be omitted.
 CHAPTER III
AMENDMENTS TO THE CoaL MInEs (SPECIAL Provisions) Act, 2015
Amendment of 10. In section 4 of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 (hereafter in this 11 of 2015.
section 4. Chapter referred to as the principal Act),—

(i) in sub-section (2),—

(a) in the opening portion, for the words "in respect of any area containing
coal", the words "or prospecting licence-cum-mining lease in respect of coal"
shall be substituted;

(b) for the long line, the following long line shall be substituted, namely:—

"to carry on coal reconnaissance or prospecting or mining
operations, for own consumption, sale or for any other purpose as
may be determined by the Central Government, and the State
Government shall grant such reconnaissance permit, prospecting
licence, mining lease or prospecting licence-cum-mining lease in
respect of Schedule I coal mine to such company as selected through
auction by competitive bidding under this section. ";

(ii) sub-section (3) shall be omitted.

 Amendment 11. In section 5 of the principal Act, in sub-section (/),—
of section 5.
(i) for the words, brackets and figures "sub-sections (/) and (3)", the words,

brackets and figures "sub-sections (/) and (2)" shall be substituted;

(ii) for the words "or mining lease in respect of any area containing coal", the
words ", mining lease or prospecting licence-cum-mining lease in respect of such
Schedule I coal mine" shall be substituted;

(iii) in the first proviso, for the words "in accordance with the permit, prospecting
licence or mining lease, as the case may be", the words "as may be determined by the
Central Government" shall be substituted.

 Amendment 12. In section 8 of the principal Act,—

of section 8. — . . -.
(i) in sub-section (4), in clause (b), for the words "a mining lease", the words

"prospecting licence, mining lease or prospecting licence-cum-mining lease, as the
case may be" shall be substituted;
Sec. 1]

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 5

(ii) in sub-section (8), for the words "a prospecting licence or a mining lease",

the words "prospecting licence, mining lease or prospecting licence-cum-mining lease"
shall be substituted;

(iii) in sub-section (9), for the words "a prospecting licence or a mining lease",

the words "prospecting licence, mining lease or prospecting licence-cum-mining lease"
shall be substituted;

(iv) after sub-section (12), the following sub-sections shall be inserted,

namely:—

"(13) The vesting order or allotment order may be terminated by the
nominated authority in such manner as may be prescribed.

 (/4) Upon termination of vesting order or allotment order, the nominated
authority may auction the coal mine under section 4 or allot the coal mine under
section 5 as may be determined by the Central Government.

 (15) The successful bidder or allottee of the coal mine whose vesting
order or allotment order has been terminated shall be deemed to be the prior
allottee for the purposes of immediate next auction or allotment of the said coal

"

mine.".

 13. In section 9 of the principal Act,—

(i) in the opening portion, for the portion beginning with the words "The proceeds

arising out of land" and ending with the words "as may be prescribed. ", the following
shall be substituted, namely:—

"The compensation for land and mine infrastructure in relation to a
Schedule I coal mine as valued in accordance with section 16 shall be deposited
by the successful bidder or allottee with the nominated authority and shall be
disbursed maintaining, inter alia, the following priority of payments and in
accordance with the relevant laws and such rules as may be prescribed. ";

(ii) in clause (b), for the words "compensation payable", the words "amount

payable" shall be substituted.".

 14. In section 18 of the principal Act, in sub-section (/), for the words and figure
“allotment of Schedule I coal mines is not complete", the words and figures "allotment of
Schedule II coal mines is not complete, or vesting order or allotment order issued under this
Act has been terminated in case of a coal mine under production," shall be substituted.

 15. In section 20 of the principal Act,—

(i) in sub-section (/), for the words "A successful bidder or allottee or coal

linkage holder shall", the words "A successful bidder or allottee shall" shall be
substituted;

(ii) for sub-section (2), the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely:—

"(2) A successful bidder or allottee may also use the coal mine from a
particular Schedule I coal mine, in any of its plants or plant of its subsidiary or
holding company engaged in same specified end-uses in such manner as may
be prescribed.".

 16. In section 31 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2),—

(i) in clause (b), for the words "prospecting licence or mining lease", the words

"prospecting licence, mining lease or prospecting licence-cum-mining lease" shall be
substituted;

Amendment
of section 9.

 Amendment
of section 18.

 Amendment
of section 20.

 Amendment
of section 31.
6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part II— Sec. 1]

(ii) after clause (/), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:—

"(/a) the manner of termination of vesting order or allotment order under
sub-section (/3) of section 8;".

Repeal and 17. (J) The Mineral Laws (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 is hereby repealed.

 Ord. 1 of
savings.

2020.
 (2) Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the principal

Act, as amended by the said Ordinance, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under
the corresponding provisions of the principal Act as amended by this Act.

DR.G NARAYANARAJU,
Secretary to the Govt. of India.

 UPLOADED BY THE MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, MINTO ROAD, NEW DELHI-110002
AND PUBLISHED BY THE CONTROLLER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI-110054.

 MGIPMRND—5890GI—13-03-2020.

 340/394
CBA2-54021/2/2017-CBA2-Part(1)
2540671/2023/P&S-II

raft a. H.0a.- 33004/99 REGD. No. D. L.-33004/99

Wea st

Cnt

Che Gazette of India

Ar. -S1. Ue. -31.-30052023-246155
CG-DL-E-30052023-246155

HATATT
EXTRAORDINARY
art Il—eqvs 3—3y-aue (i)
PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (i)

rfeare & wearfere
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

a. 319] we faveft, drrarz, AE 29, 2023/savS 8, 1945
No. 319] NEW DELHI, MONDAY, MAY 29, 2023/JYAISHTHA 8, 1945

Brae HATA

afer
ae feet, 29 HE, 2023

aarft. 393(a). — are are (aera saree) fram, 2014 ar site aettaat awed & foro afar
Praat aT ure, area ars (fase sree) afer 2015 (2015 ar 11) At aver 31 Ft Saar (1) F
att TIAA, AT HUTA, TATA, AMT I, AS 3, SI-Ae (i) H ATCT ArH BH HAA Aaa Ft
afeepaar Heath ara. FY. 47 (aH) athe 24 ora, 2023 art wartira Pew we ey, rere teat ast orierat
& Rrrs see wares ert At Sara at, Sa ae & ferent Sew ater ar tase et aed cera Ft
Ucar, THAT HT Saeed HTT TT AT ATMS a chet Fer Ft cate He creas S Geet avery are Fara a et
far ae 9;

aA, SH TTT alee Ft ohat Sera HT 24 TTA, 2023 Hr Tres Her at TE aft;

AT, SH ITST aa He aa STAT A ITA Seer TT ite Garrat Te als ane are ferare PAT TAT
&

Ae:, AT HAT ALHTe HAA aT (farsa States) afatay, 2015 (2015 wr 11) At aret 31 Ft
STAT (1) Bre STATA (2) AT Wat ahHat HT TINT Hed |v, BAA are (aera srater) Fra, 2014 Fr
ae Aotrert Het fore Prafetad Faw sarc g, ward :-

3392 GI/2023 (1)
341/394
CBA2-54021/2/2017-CBA2-Part(1)

2540671/2023/P&S-Il
2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEc. 3(i)]
1. afera are ate area (1) Sat erat ar afer art rae art (faere Sree) (Aertat) fra,
2023 #1

(2) 3 tres HS THT TT AT TS A TET SAT

2. Hraar are (fasra sree) Fra, 2014 F, frre 10 & sattaw (4) F As (7) F STE (iii) F,
“a TET HBT A Fret ataia” teat Hears Te “are Mita SAS FATA” Mor TA TTT

[oar. a. atefte2-1301 1/1/2020-atst72]
HAP, ATE aT

fron: yer fae at UTA, ATT I, GE 3, TI-as (i) F erry aT AAA. 883(a), ate 11 feaax,
2014 art warfare fer rey ate Heat ara. 332(a) aréra 29 aE, 2020 are aifas are aorta
far ar

MINISTRY OF COAL

NOTIFICATION
New Delhi, the 29th May, 2023

G.S.R. 393(E). — WHEREAS, the draft of certain rules further to amend the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Rules, 2014 was published, as required under sub-section (1) of section 31 of the Coal Mines
(Special Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of 2015), vide notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of
Coal number G.S.R. 47 (E), dated the 24th January, 2023 in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II,
Section 3, Sub-section (i) inviting objections and suggestions from all persons likely to be affected thereby,
before the expiry of the period of thirty days from the date on which copies of the Gazette containing the
said notification were made available to public;

AND WHEREAS, copies of the said Gazette notification were made available to the public on the
24th January, 2023;

AND WHEREAS, objections and suggestions received from the public in respect of the said draft
tules have been considered by the Central Government;

NOW THEREFORE, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 31
of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of 2015) the Central Government hereby makes the
following rules further to amend the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014 , namely:-

1. Short title and commencement. — (1) These rules may be called the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) (Amendment) Rules, 2023.

 (2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.

 2. In the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014, in rule 10, in sub-rule (4), in clause (c), in
sub-clause (iii), for the words “bid security in the form of bank guarantee”, the words “provide bid
security” shall be substituted.

 [F. No. CBA2-13011/1/2020-CBA2/P&S-IT]
M. NAGARAJU, Addl. Secy.

 Note: The principal rules were published in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (i) vide
number G.S.R. 883(E), dated the 11th December, 2014 and were last amended vide number G.S.R 332(E),
dated the 29th May, 2020.

 Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-1 10054. MANO} KUMAR

THE COAL BEARING AREAS (ACQUISITION AND DEVELOPMENT) ACT, 1957

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

SECTIONS

=

. Short title, extent and commencement.
 Definitions.

 Appointment of competent authority.

 FY N

Pr eliminary notification respecting intention to prospect for coal in any area and powers of
competent authorities thereupon.

 5. Effect of notification on prospecting licences and mining leases.

 6. Compensation for any necessary damage done under section 4.

7. Power to acquire land or rights in or over land notified under section 4.

8. Objections to acquisition.

 9. Declaration of acquisition.

 9A. Special powers in cases of urgency.

 10. Vesting of land or rights in Central Government.

 11. Power of Central Government to direct vesting of land or rights in a Government company.
 12. Power to take possession of land acquired.

 13. Compensation for prospecting licences ceasing to have effect, rights under mining leases being
acquired, etc.

14. Method of determining compensation.
 15. Costs.

 16. Interest on awards.

 17. Payment of compensation.

 18. Prospecting and mining to be done by Central Government in conformity with the Mineral
Concession Rules.

 18A. Payment to State Governments in lieu of royalty.
 19. Power to delegate.

 20. Appeals.

21. Power to obtain information.

 22. Power to enter and inspect.

 23. Penalties.

 24. Service of notices and orders.

 25. Protection of action taken in good faith.

 26. Jurisdiction of civil courts.

 27. Power to make rules.

 28. Notifications under Act 1 of 1894 in which proceedings are pending to be treated as notifications
under this Act.
 THE COAL BEARING AREAS (ACQUISITION AND DEVELOPMENT) ACT, 1957
ACT No. 20 OF 1957
 [8th June, 1957. ]

 An Act to establish in the economic interest of India greater public control over the coal mining
industry and its development by providing for the acquisition by the State of unworked land
containing or likely to contain coal deposits or of rights in or over such land, for the
extinguishment or modification of such rights accruing by virtue of any agreement, lease,
licence or otherwise, and for matters connected therewith.

 BE it enacted by Parliament in the Eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows:—

1. Short title, extent and commencement.—(/) This Act may be called the Coal Bearing Areas
(Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957.

 (2) It extends to the whole of India, except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.

 (3) It shall come into force on such date’ as the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, appoint.

 2. Definitions.—In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—

(a) “competent authority” means any person appointed to be a competent authority under
section 3;

(b) “Government company” means a Government company as defined in section 617 of the
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), in which any land or rights in or over land shall have vested under
section 11;

(c) “Mineral Concession Rules” means the rules for the time being in force made under the Mines
and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1948 (53 of 1948);

* [(cc) “mining lease” includes a mining sub-lease, and “lessee” shall be construed accordingly; ]

(d) the expression “person interested” includes all persons claiming an interest in compensation to
be made on account of the acquisition of land, or of the acquisition, extinguishment or modification
of any rights in or over land, under this Act;

(e) “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(f) “Tribunal” means the Tribunal constituted under section 14.

 3. Appointment of competent authority—The Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, appoint any person to be the competent authority for the purposes of this Act; and
different persons may be appointed as competent authorities for different provisions of this Act and for
different areas.

 4. Preliminary notification respecting intention to prospect for coal in any area and powers of
competent authorities thereupon.—(/) Whenever it appears to the Central Government that coal is
likely to be obtained from land in any locality, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, give notice
of its intention to prospect for coal therein.

 (2) Every notification under sub-section (/) shall give a brief description of the land and state its
approximate area.

 (3) On the issue of a notification under sub-section (J), it shall be lawful for the competent authority
and for his servants and workmen—

(a) to enter upon and survey any land in such locality;

(b) to dig or bore into the sub-soil;

1. 12th June, 1957, vide Notification No. S.R.O. 1931 (E), dated 10th June, 1957, see Gazette of India, Extraordinary,
Part II, sec. 3(i).
 2. Ins. by Act 51 of 1957, s. 2 (w.e.f. 12-6-1957).
 (c) to do all other acts necessary to prospect for coal in the land;

(d) to set out the boundaries of the land in which prospecting is proposed to be done and the
intended line of the work, if any, proposed to be made thereon;

(e) to mark such boundaries and line by placing marks; and

(f) where otherwise the survey cannot be completed and the boundaries and line marked, to cut
down and clear away any part of any standing crop, fence or jungle:

Provided that no person shall enter into any building or upon any enclosed court or garden attached to
a dwelling house (unless with the consent of the occupier thereof) without previously giving such
occupier at least seven days’ notice in writing of his intention to do so.

 (4) In issuing a notification under this section the Central Government shall exclude therefrom that
portion of any land in which coal mining operations are actually being carried on in conformity with the
provisions of any enactment, rule or order for the time being in force or any premises on which any
process ancillary to the getting, dressing or preparation for sale of coal obtained as a result of such
operations is being carried on are situate.

 5. Effect of notification on prospecting licences and mining leases.—On the issue of a notification
under sub-section (/) of section 4 in respect of any land—

(a) any prospecting licence '[which authorises any person] to prospect for coal or any other
mineral in the land shall cease to have effect; and

(b) any mining lease ***** shall, in so far as it authorises the lessee or any person claiming
through him to undertake any operation in the land, cease to have effect for so long as the notification
under that sub-section is in force.

 6. Compensation for any necessary damage done under section 4.—(/) Whenever any action of
the nature described in sub-section (3) of section 4 is to be taken, the competent authority shall, before or
at the time such action is taken, pay or tender payment for all necessary damage which is likely to be
caused, and in case of dispute as to the sufficiency of the amount so paid or tendered or as to the person to
whom it should be paid or tendered, he shall at once refer the dispute to the decision of the Central
Government, and the decision of the Central Government shall be final.

 (2) The fact that there exists any such dispute as is referred to in this section shall not be a bar to
action under sub-section (3) of section 4.

7. Power to acquire land or rights in or over land notified under section 4.—(/) If the Central
Government is satisfied that coal is obtainable in the whole or any part of the land notified under
sub-section (/) of section 4, it may, within a period of two years from the date of the said notification or
within such further period not exceeding one year in the aggregate as the Central Government may
specify in this behalf, by notification in the Official Gazette, give notice of its intention to acquire the
whole or any part of the land or of any rights in or over such land, as the case may be.

 (2) If no notice to acquire the land or any rights in or over such land is given under sub-section (/)
within the period allowed thereunder, the notification issued under sub-section (/) of section 4 shall cease
to have effect on the expiration of three years from the date thereof.

 8. Objections to acquisition—(/) Any person interested in any land in respect of which a
notification under section 7 has been issued may, within thirty days of the issue of the notification, object
to the acquisition of the whole or any part of the land or of any rights in or over such land.

 1. Subs. by Act 51 of 1957, s. 3, for “granted to any person under the Mineral Concession Rules which authorises
him” (w.e.f. 12-6-1957).
 2. The words “granted to any person under the Mineral Concession Rules” omitted by s. 3, ibid. (w.e.f. 12-6-1957).
 Explanation.—It shall not be an objection within the meaning of this section for any person to say
that he himself desires to undertake mining operations in the land for the production of coal and that such
operations should not be undertaken by the Central Government or by any other person.

 (2) Every objection under sub-section (/) shall be made to the competent authority in writing, and the
competent authority shall give the objector an opportunity of being heard either in person or by a legal
practitioner and shall, after hearing all such objections and after making such further inquiry, if any,
as he thinks necessary, '[either make a report in respect of the land which has been notified under
sub-section (/) of section 7 or of rights in or over such land, or make different reports in respect of
different parcels of such land or of rights in or over such land, to the Central Government, containing his
recommendations on the objections, together with the record of the proceedings held by him, for the
decision of that Government. ]

(3) For the purposes of this section, a person shall be deemed to be interested in land who would be
entitled to claim an interest in compensation if the land or any rights in or over such land were acquired
under this Act.

 9. Declaration of acquisition——(/) When the Central Government is satisfied, after considering the
report, if any, made under section 8 that any land or any rights in or over such land should be acquired, a
declaration shall be made by it to that effect *[, and different declarations may be made from time to time
in respect of different parcels of any land, or of rights in or over such land, covered by the same
notification under sub-section (/) of section 7, irrespective of whether one report or different reports has
or have been made (wherever required) under sub-section (2) of section 8]:

* [Provided that no declaration in respect of any particular land, or rights in or over such land, covered
by a notification under sub-section (/) of section 7, issued after the commencement of the Coal Bearing
Areas (Acquisition and Development) Amendment and Validation Act, 1971 (54 of 1971), shall be made
after the expiry of three years from the date of the said notification:

Provided further that, where a declaration] relates to any land or to any rights in or over land
belonging to a State Government which has or have not been leased out, no such declaration shall be
made except after previous consultation with the State Government.

 (2) “[Every declaration] shall be published in the Official Gazette, and—

(a) in any case where land is to be acquired, shall state the district or other territorial division in
which the land is situate and its approximate area; and, where a plan shall have been made of the
land, the place where such plan may be inspected;

(b) in any case where rights in or over such land are to be acquired, shall state the nature and
extent of the rights in addition to the matters relating to the land specified in clause (a); and

a copy of every such declara tion shall be sent to the State Government concerned.

 ° [9A. Special powers in cases of urgency.—If the Central Government is satisfied that it is
necessary to acquire immediately the whole or any part of the land notified under sub-section (/) of
section 4 or any rights in or over such land, the Central Government may direct that the provisions of
section 8 shall not apply, and if it does so direct, a declaration may be made under section 9 in respect
thereof at any time after the issue of the notification under section 7.]

10. Vesting of land or rights in Central Government.—(/) On the publication in the Official
Gazette of the declaration under section 9, the land or the rights in or over the land, as the case may be,
shall vest absolutely in the Central Government *Ifree from all encumbrances].

 1. Subs. by Act 54 of 1971, s. 2, for certain words (w.e.f. 11-12-1971).

 2. Ins. by s. 3, ibid. (w.e.f 11-12-1971).

 3. Subs. by s. 3, ibid., for “Provided that, where the declaration” (w.e.f. 11-12-1971).
4. Subs. by s. 3, ibid., for “The declaration” (w.e.f. 11-12-1971).

 5. Ins. by Act 51 of 1957, s. 4 (w.e.f 12-6-1957).

 6. Ins. by s. 5, ibid. (w.e.f. 12-6-1957).

 (2) Where the rights under any mining lease '[granted or deemed to have been granted by a State
Government] to any person are acquired under this Act, the Central Government shall, on and from the
date of such vesting, be deemed to have become the lessee of the State Government as if a mining lease
under the Mineral Concession Rules had been granted by the State Government to the Central
Government, the period thereof being the entire period for which such a lease could have been granted by
the State Government under those rules.

 11. Power of Central Government to direct vesting of land or rights in a Government
company.—(/) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 10, the Central Government may, if it is
satisfied that a Government company is willing to comply, or has complied, with such terms and
conditions as the Central Government may think fit to impose, direct, by order in writing, that the land or
the rights in or over the land, as the case may be, shall, instead of vesting in the Central Government
under section 10 or continuing to so vest, vest in the Government company either on the date of
publication of the declaration or on such other date as may be specified in the direction.

 (2) Where the rights under any mining lease acquired under this Act vest in a Government company
under sub-section (/), the Government company shall, on and from the date of such vesting, be deemed to
have become the lessee of the State Government as if a mining lease under the Mineral Concession Rules
had been granted by the State Government to the Government company, the period thereof being the
entire period for which such a lease could have been granted by the State Government under those rules;
and all the rights and liabilities of the Central Government in relation to the lease or the land covered by it
shall, on and from the date of such vesting, be deemed to have become the rights and liabilities of the
Government company.

 12. Power to take possession of land acquired.—The competent authority may, by notice in
writing, require any person in possession of any land acquired under this Act to surrender or deliver
possession of the land within such period as may be specified in the notice, and if a person refuses or fails
to comply with any such notice, the competent authority may enter upon and take possession of the land,
and for that purpose may use or cause to be used such force as may be necessary.

13. Compensation for prospecting licences ceasing to have effect, rights under mining leases
being acquired, etc.—(/) Where a prospecting licence ceases to have effect under section 5, there shall
be paid to the person interested compensation, the amount of which shall be a sum made up of all items of
reasonable and bona fide expenditure actually incurred in respect of the land, that is to say,—

(i) the expenditure incurred in obtaining the licence;

(ii) the expenditure, if any, incurred in respect of the preparation of maps, charts and other
documents relating to the land, the collection from the land of cores or other mineral samples and the
due analysis thereof and the preparation of any other relevant records or material;

(iii) the expenditure, if any, incurred in respect of the construction of roads or other essential
works on the land, if such roads or works are in existence and in a usable condition;

(iv) the expenditure, if any, incurred in respect of any other operation necessary for prospecting
carried out in the land.

 (2) Where the rights under a mining lease are acquired under this Act, there shall be paid to the
person interested compensation, the amount of which shall be a sum made up of the following items,
namely,—

(i) if the lease was granted after prospecting operations had been carried out in respect of the land
under a prospecting licence, the sum of all items of reasonable and bona fide expenditure actually
incurred with respect to the matters specified in clauses (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) of sub-section (/) before
the date of the lease:

1. Subs. by Act 51 of 1957, s. 5, for “granted by a State Government” (w.e.f. 12-6-1957).
 Provided that where two or more leases had been granted in relation to any land covered
previously by one prospecting licence, only so much of the expenditure aforesaid as bears to the total
expenditure the same proportion as the area under the mining lease in respect of which the rights have
been acquired bears to the total area covered by the mining leases shall be payable under this clause;

(ii) any reasonable and bona fide expenditure of the nature referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii)
of sub-section (/) actually incurred in relation to the lease, together with the salami, if any, paid for
obtaining the lease;

(iii) the expenditure, if any, incurred by way of payment of dead-rent or minimum royalty during
any year or years when there was no production of coal;

(iv) interest on any such expenditure referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) as has actually been
incurred '[up to] the year in which the rights under the lease are acquired, interest being calculated in
the following manner, that is to say,—

interest at the rate of five per centum per annum in respect of the expenditure incurred during
each calendar year for the first five years commencing from the year in which such expenditure
was incurred plus interest at the rate of four per centum per annum in respect of each subsequent
year after the expiration of the first five years and ending with the year in which the rights under
the lease are acquired:

Provided that the total sum payable under this clause shall not exceed one-half of the total amount
referred to in 7[clauses (i), (ii) and (iii)].

 (3) Where the rights under a mining lease acquired under section 9 relate only to a part of the land
covered by the mining lease, the amount of compensation payable shall be such as bears to the total
compensation which would have been payable if the rights of the mining lessee in respect of the entire
land had been acquired, the same proportion which the area of the land in respect of which the rights are
acquired bears to the total area of the land covered by the mining lease.

 (4) Where a mining lease ceases to have effect for any period under clause (b) of section 5, there shall
be paid by way of compensation for the period during which the lease so ceased to have effect, a sum
equivalent to five per centum of any such expenditure as is referred to in clauses (i) and (iii) of
sub-section (2) for each year during which the lease remains suspended.

 (5) Where any land is acquired under section 9, there shall be paid compensation to the person
interested the amount of which shall be determined after taking into consideration—

(a) the market value of the land at the date of the publication of the notification under
sub-section (/) of section 4;

Explanation —The value of any minerals lying in the land shall not be taken into consideration in
determining the market value of any land;

(b) the damage sustained by the person interested, by reason of the taking of any standing crops
or trees which may be on the land at the time of the taking possession thereof;

(c) the damage, if any, sustained by the person interested, at the time of taking possession of the
land, by reason of severing such land from other land;

(d) the damage, if any, sustained by the person interested, at the time of taking possession of the
land, by reason of the acquisition injuriously affecting his other immovable property in any other
manner, or his earnings;

(e) if, in consequence of the acquisition of the land, the person interested is compelled to change
his residence or place of business, the reasonable expenses, if any, incidental to such change; and

1. Subs. by Act 51 of 1957, s. 6, for “during the period commencing from the date of the lease and ending with” (w.e.f. 12-6-1957).
 2. Subs. by s. 6, ibid. , for “clauses (ii) and (iii)” (w.e.f. 12-6-1957).
 (f) the damage, if any, bona fide resulting from diminution of the profits of the land between the
time of the publication of the notification under sub-section (/) of section 4 and the time of the
publication of the declaration under sub-section (2) of section 9.

 '[(5A) In determining the amount of compensation for any land acquired under section 9, any increase
to the value of the other land of the person interested, likely to accrue from the use to which the land
acquired will be put shall not be taken into consideration. ]

(6) Where any operation carried on by or on behalf of the Central Government in the exercise of any
powers conferred by this Act causes or is likely to cause damage to the surface of any land or any works
thereon and in respect thereof no provision for compensation is made elsewhere in this Act, the competent
authority shall pay or tender payment for all such damage, and, in case of dispute as to the sufficiency of
the amount so paid or tendered or as to the person to whom it is to be paid or tendered, he shall refer the
dispute to the decision of the Tribunal.

 (7) No compensation under this section in relation to maps, charts and other documents shall be paid
unless the person to whom it is payable has delivered to the prescribed authority all the maps, charts and
other documents.

 14. Method of determining compensation.——(/) Where the amount of any compensation payable
under this Act can be fixed by agreement, it shall be paid in accordance with such agreement.

 (2) Where no such agreement can be reached, the Central Government shall constitute a Tribunal
consisting of a person who is or has been or is qualified to be a Judge of a High Court for the purpose of
determining the amount.

 (3) The Central Government may in any particular case nominate a person having expert knowledge
in mining to assist the Tribunal, and where such nomination is made, the person or persons interested may
also nominate any other person for the same purpose.

 (4) At the commencement of the proceedings before the Tribunal the Central Government and the
person interested shall state what in their respective opinions is a fair amount of compensation.

 (5) The Tribunal shall after hearing the dispute, make an award determining the amount of
compensation which appears to it to be just, and specify the person or persons to whom th e compensation
shall be paid; and in making the award the Tribunal shall have regard to the circumstances of each case
and to the foregoing provisions of this Act with respect to the manner in which the amount of
compensation shall be determined in so far as the said provisions or any of them may be applicable.

 (6) Where there is a dispute as to the person or persons entitled to compensation and the Tribunal
finds that more persons than one are entitled to compensation, it shall apportion the amount thereof
among such persons and in such manner as it thinks fit.

 (7) Nothing in the Arbitration Act, 1940 (10 of 1940), shall apply to any proceedings under this
section.

 *[(8) The Tribunal, in the proceedings before it, shall have all the powers which a civil court has
while trying a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), in respect of the following
matters, namely:—

(i) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on oath;
(ii) requiring the discovery and production of any document;

(iii) reception of evidence on affidavits;

(iv) requisitioning any public record from any court or office; and

(v) issuing commissions for examination of witnesses. ]

15. Costs.—Every award made by the Tribunal shall also state the amount of costs incurred in the
proceedings before it and by what persons and in what proportions they are to be paid.

 1. Ins. by Act 54 of 1971, s. 4 (w.e.f. 11-12-1971).
 2. Ins. by s. 5, ibid. (w.e.f. 11-12-1971).
 16. Interest on awards.—If the sum which in the opinion of the Tribunal ought to have been
awarded as compensation is in excess of the sum which the Central Government has stated to be a fair
amount of compensation, the award of the Tribunal may direct that the Central Government shall pay
interest on such excess at the rate of five per centum per annum from the date on which it became payable
to the date of payment of such excess.

 17. Payment of compensation.—(/) Any compensation payable under this Act may be tendered or
paid to the persons interested entitled thereto, and the Central Government shall pay it to them unless
prevented by some one or more of the contingencies mentioned in sub-section (2).

 (2) If the persons interested entitled thereto shall not consent to receive it or if there be any dispute as
to the sufficiency of the amount of compensation or the title to receive it or the apportionment thereof, the
Central Government shall deposit the amount of compensation with the Tribunal:

 Provided that any person admitted to be interested may receive such payment under protest as to the
sufficiency of the amount:

'[Provided further that every person who claims to be an interested person (whether such person has
been admitted to be interested or not) including the person referred to in the preceding proviso shall be
entitled to prefer a claim for compensation before the Tribunal:

Provided also that no person who has received the amount otherwise than under protest shall be
entitled to prefer any such claim before the Tribunal.]

 (3) When the amount of compensation is not paid or deposited as required by this section, the Central
Government shall be liable to pay interest thereon at the rate of five per centum per annum from the time
the compensation became due until it shall have been so paid or deposited.

 18. Prospecting and mining to be done by Central Government in conformity with the Mineral
Concession Rules.—Where prospecting is done under this Act by or on behalf of the Central
Government in any land situate within the jurisdiction of a State Government or where the Central
Government or a Government company has become the lessee of a State Government in respect of any
land under this Act, the terms and conditions under which the prospecting can be done or rights under the
lease exercised shall, as far as may be, be the same as the terms and conditions applicable to prospecting
licences and mining leases under the Mineral Concession Rules; and in case of doubt or dispute, shall be
settled by arbitration or in such other manner as the Central Government and the State Government may
decide.

 *[18A. Payment to State Governments in lieu of royalty—Notwithstanding anything contained in
this Act, where any land or any rights in or over land belonging to a State Government (other than the
rights under a mining lease granted or deemed to have been granted by the State Government to any
person) vest in the Central Government under section 10 or in a Government Company under section 11,
the Central Government or the Company, as the case may be, may pay to the State Government such sum
of money as would have been payable as royalty by a lessee had such land or rights been under a mining
lease granted by the State Government. ]

19. Power to delegate.—The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct
that all or any of the powers or duties which may be exercised or discharged by it under this Act shall, in
such circumstances and under such conditions, if any, as may be specified in the notification, be exercised
or discharged also by any person specified in this behalf in the notification and any such person may, with
the previous approval of the Central Government, by order in writing, direct that any power or duty which
has been directed to be exercised or discharged by him shall, in such circumstances and under such
conditions, if any, as may be specified in the direction, be exercised or discharged by any such person
subordinate to him as may be specified therein.

 1. Subs. by Act 54 of 1971, s. 6, for the second proviso (w.e.f. 11-12-1971).
 2. Ins. by s. 7, ibid. (w.e.f. 11-12-1971).
 20. Appeals.—(/) Any person aggrieved by any award of the Tribunal under section 14 may, within
thirty days from the date of such award, prefer an appeal to the High Court within whose jurisdiction the
land or some portion of the land which has been acquired or the land or some portion of the land covered
by a prospecting licence or by a mining lease in respect of which mining rights have been acquired is
situate.

 (2) Any person aggrieved by an order made by a competent authority or by any other person in virtue
of any powers exercisable by him under this Act may, within twenty-one days from the date of the order,
prefer an appeal to the Central Government.

 (3) On receipt of an appeal under sub-section (2), the Central Government may, after calling for a
report from the competent authority of person concerned, and giving an opportunity to the parties to be
heard, and after making such further inquiry as may be necessary, pass such orders as it thinks fit, and the
order of the Central Government shall be final.

 (4) Where an appeal is preferred under sub-section (2), the Central Government may stay the
enforcement of the order of the competent authority or person concerned for such period and on such
conditions as it thinks fit.

 21. Power to obtain information.—The Central Government or any person authorised in writing by
it in this behalf may, by order in writing, require any person to furnish to such authority as may be
specified in the order such information in his possession as may be required relating to any property in
respect of which action is proposed to be taken under this Act.

22. Power to enter and inspect.—The competent authority, or any person authorised in writing by it
in this behalf, by general or special order, may enter and inspect any property for the purpose of
determining whether and, if so, in what manner an order under this Act should be made in relation to any
property or with a view to securing compliance with any order made under this Act.

23. Penalties—Whoever wilfully obstructs any person in doing any of the acts authorised by
sub-section (3) of section 4 or wilfully fills up, destroys, damages or displaces any mark made under
section 4, or wilfully obstructs the lawful exercise of any other power conferred by or under this Act, or
fails to comply with any order made or direction given under this Act, shall be punishable with
imprisonment which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or
with both.

24. Service of notices and orders.—Subject to any rules that may be made under this Act, every
notice or order issued or made under this Act shall—

(a) in the case of a notice or order of a general nature or affecting a number of persons, be
notified in the Official Gazette and also published in the locality in such manner as may be
prescribed; and

(b) in the case of a notice or order directed to an individual '[be served on such individual],—
(i) wherever it is practicable to do so by delivering or tendering it to that individual; or

(ii) if it cannot be so delivered or tendered, by affixing it on the door or some other
conspicuous part of the residence in which that individual lives, and a written report thereof shall
be prepared and witnessed by two persons living in the neighbourhood; or

(iii) failing service by these means, by post.

25. Protection of action taken in good faith.—(/) No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding
shall lie against the Central Government or any person for anything which is in good faith done or
intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or any rule or order made thereunder.

 1. Ins. by Act 58 of 1960, s. 3 and the Second Schedule (w.e.f. 26-12-1960).
 (2) No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central Government or the competent
authority or any other person for any damage caused or likely to be caused by anything which is in good
faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or any rule or order made thereunder.

 26. Jurisdiction of civil courts.—Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, no civil court
shall have jurisdiction in respect of any matter which the Central Government or the competent authority
or any other person is empowered by or under this Act to determine.

 27. Power to make rules.—(/) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act.

 (2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may
provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:—

(a) the procedure to be followed in making any inquiry under this Act;
(b) the procedure to be followed by the Tribunal in proceedings under section 14;

(c) the form and manner in which appeals to the Central Government may be made under this
Act; and

(d) any other matter which has to be, or may be, prescribed.

 '[(3) Every rule made by the Central Government under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after
it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the
session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in
making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that
any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done
under that rule.]

28. Notifications under Act 1 of 1894 in which proceedings are pending to be treated as
notifications under this Act.—(/) Every notification issued before the commencement of  this Act,
whether by the Central Government or by a State Government, under section 4 of the Land Acquisition
Act, 1894 (1 of 1894) (hereinafter referred to as the said Act), in which lands were stated to be needed for
the prospecting of coal seams for the development of collieries to be worked by the Union of India shall
be deemed to have been issued by the Central Government under section 4 of this Act as if this Act had
been in force on the date of the notification.

 (2) Every notification issued before the commencement of this Act, whether by the Central
Government or by a State Government, under section 6 of the said Act in which lands were stated to be
needed for the development of coal shall be deemed to have been issued under section 9 of this Act as if
this Act had been in force on the date of the notification.

 (3) Any objection preferred under section 5A of the said Act in respect of any land covered by any
notification issued under section 4 of the said Act shall be deemed to be an objection preferred under
section 8 of this Act to the relevant competent authority and may be “[disposed of by him as if the
objection had been made in relation to a notification issued under section 7 of this Act *[in respect of such
land] or of any rights in or over such land; and the Central Government may at any time make a
declaration under section 9 of this Act in respect of the land or any part thereof or any rights in or over
such land or part].

 1. Subs. by Act 4 of 2005, s. 2 and the Schedule, for sub-section (3) (w.e.f. 1 1-1-2005).
 2. Subs. by Act 51 of 1957, s. 7, for “disposed of by him accordingly” (w.e.f. 12-6-1957).
 3. Subs. by Act 23 of 1969, s. 2, for certain words (w.e.f. 12-8-1969).

 10
'[(3A) Where in respect of any land covered by any notification issued under section 4 of the said Act,
no objection has been preferred under section 5A thereof within the period specified in that section, then
it shall be deemed that a notification had been issued under section 7 of this Act in respect of such land or
of any rights in or over such land and that no objection to the acquisition of the land or any rights in or
over the land had been preferred under section 8 of this Act, and accordingly the Central Government
may at any time make a declaration under section 9 of this Act in respect of the land or any part thereof or
any rights in or over such land or part.]

 (4) Subject to the other provisions contained in this section, the provisions of this Act (including
provisions relating to compensation) shall apply in relation to any such notification as is referred to in
sub-section (/) or sub-section (2) as they apply in relation to any notification issued under section 4 or
section 9, as the case may be, of this Act.

 1. Ins. by Act 23 of 1969, s. 2 (w.e.f. 12-8-1969).

 11
zfreft a. H.uer.- 33004/99 REGD. No. D. L.-33004/99

Sitd sx Vista
Che Gazette of Jndia

aloft. -S1.Ve.-31.-05062020-219772
CG-DL-E-05062020-219772

AATATOT
EXTRAORDINARY
art Il—ave 3—34-a@ve (ii)
PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (ii)
siferare & raft
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

a. 1584] ae feet, Gwarx, HT 5, 2020/ Svs 15, 1942
No. 1584] NEW DELHI, FRIDAY, JUNE 5, 2020/ JYAISTHA 15, 1942
SAAT ATT

a feet, 5 FA, 2020

SLA. 1766(4). — alt AHI, Urs site alt (frara site fata) afafas, 1957
(1957 =r 67)At arer 26 At SA-ATeT (1) SS (H) ST Va okewat Hr aT Hed eu Prag act S PH
wears Hee afer Fe Vent HY aera Ht aT S xt Hrs sats ated FraH, 2017 F aTae
so atatrare Ft are 114% aetr Fett acare Ft orkeat Brae ara (faery soda) afer,
2015 (2015 4 4. 11) St arr 6 & seis Peper ara ere are oft seater ehhh

2.0 Tet orferat ft orreenar oe after ware Sret feat arfere orfeears eT

@) afte Fert, Searea, Ses ATTA, BTA AaATAAT ste Tah a|s sat Star Tae HT
afed srrear ar feraree & Peet ft sata & afer Peet At orf ar wrferart & aragay
aT HATA;

(i) fafaer eearasy, fTarett aie ardest ord, aot arafeat & ara Par srt avert vider Hee
ar frat att arden Hartera Hea a fers sraferst aes are Aft eearast Tae HAT;

(ii) ateen Whar Aart Hea *H TeaTa, alerares areftaranr ar aferares ara fect * ara Ft aro
HOTT Se aA TaT H fer pars Tee BT ATT Peart aA HAT;

2419 G1/2020 (1)
2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(ii)]

(iv) Shr aca a Peer we ae ast arsed & are ate fara az soorest F Aafe HAT
BAT AT alae THAT TE PLAT;

(v) aden arest at roared BAT;

(vi) aaert arest aie afafae & saat car sah sett sare ae Prat a arpa aT He
fora Sata AT Se TST HTS Bh afer wafeeerheat wr Bart HAT;

(vii) aden a ore Ata ane ate wore FT TA ere aaa HEH Vora:

(viii) Het arafedt & Froored Sep faa ora ear sie arent FT ovat arene Teh ew oR
Hl Aactd AAT;

(Gx) afafrae site gern afte gare re Pet ft frarat ar fattest a ate aera aifaten
oifeatRat & aaa AATAT;

(x) Wad arat & froqran & fre we aT afer Se ard Sree, Aarlera HAT AT FATT THAT; aT

(xi) aad rat & fearest F errr & fare fasrosit ate aarenret ar PE BAT

3. arta srferart fife yet ae Ate sears are feu ae fee eer gro aae
erm
[rrr. a. atete1-1301 1/1/2020-4ttT 1]

wart ware oft, aa at

MINISTRY OF ROAD TRANSPORT AND HIGHWAYS
NOTIFICATION
New Delhi, the 5th June, 2020

S.O. 1766(E). — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 26 of the
Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957), the Central Government hereby
directs that on and from the date of publication of this notification in the Official Gazette,the powersof the
Central Government under section 11A of the said Actin accordance with the Coal Bocks Allocation Rules,
2017 shall alsobe exercisable by thenominated authority appointed under section 6 of the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Act, 2015 (No. 11 of 2015).

 2. Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing powers, the nominated authority shall—

(i) call for all information necessary from any person or authority in relation to any coal or lignite block,
including records in relation to the mineral reserves, production, costs of production, mine
infrastructure and the like and prepare block dossier;

(ii) prepare tender document, auction and allotment conditions, model agreement to be entered with the
successful allocatees or any other documents required for conduct of auction and allotment;

(iii) after conducting the allocation process, declare the name of preferred bidder or preferred allottee and
forward its recommendations to the Central Government for approval;

(iv) upon receipt of the direction from the Central Government, enter into agreement related to block
development and production with the successful allocatee or cancel the allocation process;

(v) execute the allocation order;

(vi) inform the relevant Central Government authorities and State Government authorities to act in
pursuance of the allocation order and the provisions of the Act and rules framed thereunder;

(vii) take requisite steps for the collection of auction proceeds and the amounts realised from allotment;

(viii) collect performance bank guarantee from the successful allocatee and invoke such bank guarantee in
accordance with the terms of allocation;
 [AMT ave 3(ii)] Ae HT UAT: TATA

(ix) call for information from the relevant statutory authorities under the Act and any rules made or
regulations framed thereunder;

(x) _ open, operate and maintain one or more bank accounts for discharge of its functions; and
(xi) engage experts and advisors to assist it in discharge of its functions.

 3. The nominated authority shall be bound by the written direction given by the Central Governmenton
the question of policy.

 [F.No. CBA1-13011/1/2020-CBA1]
BHABANI PRASAD PATI, Jt. Secy.

Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054. | ALOK KUMAR 2wttyisessytoxruna
raft a. H.ua.- 33004/99 REGD. NO. D. L.-33004/99

Che Gazette of india

Alsi. -S1.Vet.-31.-01062020-219681
CG-DL-E-01062020-219681

AATATT
EXTRAORDINARY
art I—@ue 3—34-@u¢ (i)
PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (i)
aiferare & safer
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

a. 254] ae fave, marx, TE 29, 2020/s%ss 8, 1942
No. 254] NEW DELHI, FRIDAY, MAY 29, 2020/JYAISTHA 8, 1942

BTA FATT
afererar
ae feet, 29 HE, 2020

ara. fA. 331 (a1). eats Aare ars site atest (Fraare sire fates) arferfary, 1957 (1957
at 67) At are 13 art Tad achat HT aT Hed EU atte Rarra fraH, 1960 F aire aetterst HOT
feu wage Prafeatad Raa sardt S tatt:—

1. afereg are site wre. (1) Sat Pera ar aiferet as att Raza (Herter) fA 2020 21
(2) aa frat F rar sreatera & rare, Fass F Searh eTert FT aT BT Tact ST

2. afta Rar frre 1960 (rad sae cea yea fae Het WaT @) F, Prae 2 F ema we
Perfect Fart ce SUT stata:

2. oRearerd. (1) a Raat F, ta te east & area safer Ft a,
(i) “afattaa” are az afta (free az fares) afataaa, 1957 (1957 #1 67) & afar 2;

(ii) “saree Aha” ar art atferrers AT aret 11 aw ae aT arden oreer F fates freer ar

aferre Ft are 17 & & aettt aT areerr ates aT rae ara (Fare Sota) ateraay 2015
(2015 =r 11) & atefts ot Peart ATT AT ATA ST ATS AT BLS AKA TA AT TAA AT VT TATA HLA

2314 GI/2020 (1)
2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

& foro Pret oo ar ort aaa are faett ae fate & ada art area ® areaa & afterra at
fermaree aera At atti fere ater;

(iii) “Tey” & =a Prat Ft arpa 1 4 faa fee ved 2:

(iv) “qaarhre Rares asa & arzer ar ferare]e aver Pet fh aa FH Ge wares HT ST
qearg da At we faega fraré fared ast qaanftchta, qaifttr, ado, are errer ar feraree
Fagan, aregiatteree, Brer-sshtfaast gar we aa F Pu ae eer ware & Shear aeaoy, aft
fearBre ar care aT aa Hater F eg Baa aa fer att afeafers 2;

(v) “ade aaa” & arr & oT Peet ot Oa aeaert ar tert aT aaa TP Sarerat & = fare Peet oa aT
aot are fret oft eer A afer Ft are 4 At So-arer (1) refs aatera aero aR aT Ser
aaa, art tet at azarfeate, & fear at ares Pear war et

ersten — sa Gs Varta & fern, -

(%) Gert TET ATH aI Ga TSH tae afarara Ft are 237% aeftt sara TT faat a fre Pest
ft Foret at seta aay aaa Ff afeafers et er

(@) aaa aat & faeae at aaarita aed eu, aserr wee ar yaar aaah ar aaa Te, zara
a adie ged are ot aa ta oefhe at aga ar cet aren art aa wofeeerst & ore aria ara
TTT

(vi) “aRasraT wearan” 2 oe Ht arfertrr AY ervey 11 a ae rel ere ser aT at Ho aT PT
& arafedi, Brae vat F afafrae Fi ar 17 & ® ade araer at feraree aren aa areata Z aT
area ara fasta (sada) afaftat 2015 (2015 ar 11) & aete are art ar ae aeftara aT
arafedt ar errer ar ferrarse & fer yaeror Tare AT Gar Wares He fers ory Feet area fafer
att arg ater aR vedere afearfert SAT;

(vil) “Ta” ate “Ter Ferra” BT eh HHT: TA SETI GT aed Tat afer, 1890 (1890 ar 9) H Saar
&

(vill) “TAY & sa Peavat & sorter eat arise B;

(ix) “arr” & afar Ft art aftr 21

(2) St great ate vat ar, ST sat ope S ate oie at & Pe afar ar sare aes aad TE
alrear sath frre, 2017 at rarer are (fasta saat) atferfara, 2015 (2015 ar 11) at sam aftr
aare au faaat, F oarite & set at Ser, ST oer aferrat at Pert F wae: Sea SN”

3. 7a Perit H, fers 8 Fy, -

() See are stem “SAT TEATT IV,” 2 CATT TS Mee, aH AT TAT “AEATT IV site TeaTT |VH” TS STAT;
ax

(@) “ae Ges TE,” eat FH CITA VS “TT TES ae TSA area A-ae-aa-Te” Med, TS STAT

4. yet Porat, seara Il & weara, Prafefad aera staearite fear sre, erarta:-
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

“weaa TI

aati Pare
21%. AR] Sar- (1) Sa Fat teas IN, AeaTT V aa eas VIA Peet ara & Ste ee ft Sa eas
sora Brrer ar feraree & are Haat APA Ize aT SAT
(2) afer fearra (aettert) Fert 2020 ary ata Ft arta site Sas TST HTT AT ferarse aT
Peet at eer are FH Gsern sarees wear site aarrfaee Peat Gare Hea Sa aeaTA HF Toa Seer
ofert err
2ta@- Terr Tarert ste yates Peare dare HEAT — (1) TAA Tareas HOT site arts Rare dare
aed & fru, aati yeaa Praferfaa ae aaa -
(i) Usa wear F Tern agate at yaar aaa A-ae-ae-ae afore ata ae feet oak ar
Face Bt AAT; AT
(i) afafrre At are 4 At so-arer (1) gat Teg afte Ader aca are fafafee ar
afergird Pret aecdt at fra ee ae; aT
(iii) atfarfrara At aver 4 Ft So-aret (1) Gat ae area afer Peet vere after
ant fae Be aa
(2) aredta aane ater tte Retreat tart ars ar ate ears are Pattee Peet
ft rer are via arr aT STAT AaersT TTRerT * ferw areca are ofa  arqare St Bre aff
ser wares Pear ST are eae aren Rare dare Ft sash
(3) 9 sa-feera (1) & aefter tert ares Her ATT Tere ahs, aot at aftencr dare aaat six
notre ft tear ar seta wed eu sit sa sale & erat sas are UH Feu ae yaar atas, |
aes ates car aes at Gaare qt wo a yee wed en, fart ad Ft ween sardt & chest aa
are feu ae art Ft fare sae aafaa aardt are ae a din are & tex Seat area rf oe
feured dhteae feats, wa acard jodi ate Ter aT BT eT UT
(4) Yaar ware TT Sty aT Sst Te aT Ther aa ee ert Ie, GT AT Tet eT, Tar oat,
art ar aftercor ft yaar waters aa ATA are wa @last area & aay aah rt Gra F
ara-arat aot arer Feu we ars Ft are sega wah
(5) sa-feera (1) & fafee oR vearas, zarfeafe afer ar afterer, atari fearé F fer
We arpet & fra Sarat erm
217. Taerr Tarerst ae aah Pare dare Her & fore verte sores eettars-caesisdt Et
frost ft arqaet Vi F fates arrat ste ofharet & arqare aeror waretag Hea site aati Rare
care eet & fore saris yaar arf ar ATTA aah”

5. Wer Prenat H, frert 22 F,-

(i) Sa-Feere (4) H, “areteet ore STA ae” erect F area site “ary Tq eat Bh fer kr AH” great site
eat A TATA SA aret ATT ser ATT RAT STOTT; SAT

(ii) Ta-Frra (4%), (47a), (5) are (6) er are Fa STOTT
4 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

6. Heat Fat H, frre 225 & care oe, Prafefad faa ca ore, state:-

“22 F - Gat ATT H ATA GAA Taras —ahrot Rarara (etter) faa 2020 ary a A at
wera At safer rears Tea:

(%) Gat AAT FH aa Pars Bre At Gast Tarver TS eT Pea TT. ST-

(i) afer Ft art 5 Ft Sa-aret (2) SS (a) F sells aqaried st ate rs 22 | % qa St
aT
(ii) afar Fi arr 5 Ft So are (2) # GS (@) HIG aT fas 22 w HH aes Gat AAT
care eer, Ta Tar Fret & fore ase ae are EIT Toe a TATE ST:
 Wed aad Tarra aftr area (astra) Faw 2020 ures ara a WS feu aaa vet F aqare
feo saree at, A sateen feu art ew Aer aaa Gers Ata are are Tea TA TST
(@) Gert Tet Wares & cheat fers Gers Arora H HTS Af STAT SS (=) H spare Pa STE

22 wH—GaA Arora F re UST aH ater eat Kt ary atefh Wore — (1) SAAT ANAT TATE HA,
warttaco atx arc & foro Fare 22 wae (mH) FH TIS (Il) BH sels TST aa are ear FT
SUT ae Tore TAT a Perey Hears ALHTT HT TeTe HT TTT
(2) asa aeare Tore H eet sh Soto a fore etry AHS aT TS ATS TT TH
(3) eta aeare ST-faara (1) F APS wort & aera ar Sa-Pae (2) F fafee sore F soto
fore tsa AHS A TT Tea HT VAT Tea * ra ara AY aT eta & is are Ft arate & ftaz Saar
ay ar saw feat Fert Bett:

 We HAT Tea US aaa Bt are afea wissen ae at fara ferfaa wa A reas
 PRAT STOTT TAT UST ACHE AT eT BT a Pe Pear aT”
7. oat Fant #, fra 22@ & cara ox faeaferfad fae car seam arate

“22a. GAT ATA IAT HEAT BH Aya — (1) afafaara Ft are 5 Fr Saar (2) H AS (@) HTT
ade aftated aera ator & ra cere Gert Stor Sat fare atefta dare At reat ite yaar
fraré dare er ae Are At afer At fae aqates &h fore vega Ft aes

Wea oa aaa F et afar Ft arr 17% % aft artet avast ar fRarét area at ade
ares aT acer ft arfeeprat aA ara & Tt arti Pearé Gare it TE SF ate SH Tf Pee
frre 21a oa-faae (2) ATA S, GATT ATT TATE HET SAT ETT HEA few we are At safer
Ue ardent avast, arf ares, atest area at afeepaar, att ft area at, At arta & fart soroafh

(2) sa-fram (1) & seit Gat Aor sare HA *& Fer, Tatar wearer fee ar Pape ae aT:
(i) ae Brees ore Praferfera agare ate srqera Tr:
(*) feafterra aqart arart afafaam, 1956 (1956 ar 3) 4t are 4 & afte
feafterra aqart art art arerat wa feet oft dearer afea we Fatt

afafias, wa wed afafiae or ue oe afatiae are at eae aes erie
ar fafa feaftarrs art aden eat estat F feat ar arrraree aaret F
[art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

feaft ar art Heft feat ar afearst Harare feat ar area ACHE aT ATT
a avez ate aera ore Peet fh feeakrercra ar seat art aged Fre Ht aaTesT

TEM, ate
(@) feat ore eer & are Gare aa A Taeft we A abs ae ar ahs reqs; aT
(ii) Gat AT care Her & fers eetars- TaesSst are gears GAT AAT Tae HOT ATT
afte
(3) Fattere-waestsdht ea frat Ft ape Vi fafea arerat site orate & arqare Weary WeTaT
am
(4) Tears Gers Ata dare Ft seaft:-
(i) Farm 21a agar dare ars Pears & aaTe I;
(ii) Sa are Ft hte aeare are ST Tart Be TAS AGATE; site
(iii) arte Ata & stax fete ara ® ferv:
Wee at ArT F car Ata A Te Age va aa ST afeafers fear at aa, oT
arrat at farce tea a ate Bree fro ase acer art Se aes aT AT -7a TT

fran war at ate ae Serre Pear war at fH ae Wa faeqa aa > few aaa Get Ved HAT
aed zl

(5) Theatre vearae ate agarore aah aT Gat AAT Gare HA ATT AfseeT Fraferfera * few
sacarft Srt:-
(i) Gert Ars F au ae ares & ferv;
(ii) we Fe sa-Frary (2) % as (i) F Patties ada ae aaa art aah aT aT ATTAT
care wer are after arr sa dae F te aa art ost anteater GAT
AAT ak FT TE ZI
(6) Theater vera Gert Aa arated & fore wet atferart ar orferart, re att acare art
afergira fear var at, et frearferfers ara weqa aM, sata:-

(i) Dar ae arrest are chia, str sft eter ears are Fafa ee Pear war at; az

(ii) Teast vedas & TAT T-7e cat ater a PH aaa ator Ht area fed aar satH aha a Te
aét 2 a afe aaa arr & aia areared Pear war aa cette ATT A aree a, TT T-Paet
(4) ® Gz (iil) & Weg F ARs cosa aa are TA Oh ATT TI
(7) Tat afererh ar orferarh, art ator area art Ft area a iat fea Ft safe & flac Gat AAT
wT AGA HOTT AT Gert AltA F Sater Hr Ser Sar aT AT StH AST areata HAT:
aed sated Stet fer ft safe Fae oat any ent wa aaa ata at wae a at aT
a feu aaa AT AT TTT A vega Heat He Geare Ua aera ar surfers arr Pefert
Pref oft aettertt a are FH Sacred erate qatera aert Stora Ted Her AT aera F ay ae
(8) sa-faaa (7) & aefte are oft areer ar Peer a cafe WRatrea verras a araer ar freer FT

aa Wa art Stet fea & fae WS aver ar safer Pger F Gaerne & fore ahs ae AT AAT
al
6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(9) Getter & fore ars ft artes ore Sr Te, ala Aas Raa vearae Ft aah site fret feat
atax avast ar freer aft gS, Sera ar seared He HAT site STH Sate A ets aeare aT fats ifaw
erm”
8, Wat fant H, faa 22e¢ site Pere 220 ar aire fea STOTT
9. Ha frat F, ere 225 & gearra, fraferferd faa sta-earite feo ort, erata:-

“298. Gad ara F Saray — (1) sa-are (3) & Sadat & aeta, aqarfed Gart ara
Peet oft soto a ara A afar wearas aqated & foro faa 22@ % sofa (6) & afte

afegira afer ar urfrart & aqates & foro flaw 22@ % apare def Gat AAT Vedat
OT

(2) sa-faaa (1) & aefte sora Praferfere fret oft arene oe feo ae, erarfar:-

(i) aaa wore F aftada;

(ii) edipa afaeoe aaa F af aac aart & fore ot are Ft eitec Pratita
aaa Fup at ware witera afters 2;

(ii) = TeraatoRada:

(iv) eter ate tare aaa & feat A

(v) aftstt ar acer;

(vi) qatar azar & fer:

(vil) — feerara et aa A tere At Gs wT PF ere HT SAT

(vii) 9 ara ae eer At ahaa oat F azarae & ferw; ar

(ix) Da wep areas oT ft Hee Aare art Pratite Pea war at:
weg arated arrer arat ar satat Be araet A, aes Arora H Pret ot tatters
fern arafifee orferert ar etter acer aT ys aqated atfera grr foray
qRoraered arafafes orferart ar atte aeare atte oR wearas, st sft

ATAeT a, * Sta eu anata F fattfee aes six of ar aaat areal F
aRada drat zi

(3) sa-fraa (1) # fafea feet ava art ec ef ofa seas aqaifed Gat apr F
Prafetad vg aftada at aaa & ate se aad & arqare fates weave ata ane BT TTT TH
afd ac eu araer fetae Bt sede He AHA S, TATA:

(i) ver aa tae a are aha
(ii) Sat ret AT ae a cara Her F aR; aT
(iii) Tet aa & fax aaearer Ft feafe A oRadat

224. wea vedfa— wats yearas art aaa ata H are At wast seahd, Gara ape ar
aratied afererh ar surfer ar setter ACHE AT UST ATS HT Veda are At aeq safe seat
[art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

aotert ar ory aad, sa Prat ar sects errr site Ot Gert AAT, Aettas ar ae oad weg
aca feet AAT STAT
10. ya frat 4, frre 24 F, oo-frae (5) & cere frafefad so-fae etoeafta fear smo,
aata:-
“(6) UST WHIT GAA TET Ba Hat araaa OT HUh, Ta araea & Foes & few ferfaa F ua

aren ater Bath”
11. fram 24 F sotaco — yer frat fra 24 4H, sore (1) & cera, fated sofort
ataearite ear sea, arate:

(2) af aaa oe & adie & fers so-faaa (1) F fee aad & sftax Pew ae Peet
HAST BT UST ACH SIRT TET AAT erat At aTet|s F Tea aera vet Pear ara S aT, ST ae AT rahe
TH AT Usa ACH ST Sa Aas H aver TR Pest at TH, SaA A TT ot deat at, Sa oe AT arate
aat ge aaett sreth”
12. Wat fant H, sear IV & gerra, Prefer aeara atacearite fear sre, stata:

“sears IVa
aeare H eles Vet ah raat atta y, H aeter A Here site fear] Ysa aqarla-ae-|aT TET
Tart HOt ITA BET Saelt THAT

40%. Fa qeara At waeaat: a aera Sade acare aes Wet GA ras ahs Z, aaa F
are atx frase ar Geer rear A-AS-aA TET WaT BTA TT ATT SAT
40a. qaern srqafe-ag-aart We & fre arated — (1) ardet ares ar fart araer ar artes arear far
area az, qarfeafe, wa ane arafedt aq | a ved a A Ue araae TA aves ate Peet ft ae
aera searastt & ara-ara Wa afer ar ora F are vega aor, re ft css aca fares
 Re:
Wed Usa ATH, FIR Sars HA BU, Ba-fras 4 fahifee wre oh cearast vega wer Ft araeaHat
F fofrer = aah
Wee Fe ste Pe ue ane arafect, afatias Ft are 4 Ft so-arer (1) & Fae Teg & ares Soh aT
frace ae tena @, fare aac A, tat aaa ardfedt faa 214 % agar q-aante Ror Gare eer
aie fae 21a AGA GAA ATT BH AAAS VATS GAT VS Tart HA BH few Haat HUT se
HeaTs IV SoA Aaa, WT GAT TS TST HLA AT SAAT MAT TT ATT SPT
(2) Tae aq a-ae-aa VE Vara HA fore gers areata Praferfera  aepare St:

(®) Ta Bee ea AT tara are Ha;

(@) Taerr aaa vara wet & fer artfera aeft ceavat ster fe faa 9 > aceite fataree

Feat Tat g; ae

(7) Fram 20 & afta fatafee oftate sar af

407. [aero aqaa-ag-aaet Ve F fre aaa TTA At aA atte rer —
8 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(1) Yaert saaft-ag-art ve vara set} few arava orf Ft cee aca are afsedtafa Ft
srastt

(2) tsa Aare, at ware a Tt we arses fret Ft arta & aed fer At safer aftae att |
wen a Ht aero aaa fore frarfeact aeth

(3) Frere 14, frre 16, fre 18, fore 19 ate Fae 21 sade Oa Yer aaa Ue ase SET
404. Gaerr Tater HAT — (1) Taerr aera faera fearfeat sty az, Sen arated, sfafaaa Ar art
7 fates safe & afta, fam 21a % aaqare Sa Tareas HOTT, Faas Rear dare Fa siz
fram 220% aqare aaa fre Gat AAT VEIT FATT

 40S. GAT TATA BAT — (1) STAT ATA HT AAT SA STA I, SH ara edt Weer aqarla-ae-aaas VE
al aera Tar faera frarfead wea a fore fare 22 & afta fafafee aaa ter vara wen & fore arafert
aeft rears   ara-ary WS aeearaat AT way TAS TST AC HTT AT TET TTT

Wed Usa aa, BET HT afaferfara Hee |v, fram 22 F fafafee are ft ears Wega wer
 At aracraan F frre 3 aaah

Wed Fe site Pe Sah array tse aH, aT AHS HY AAT A, SAT WaT BA
fora aaa Tet facta F Ot area ord, ot ft ae Ste sae, afercite ax aah

(2) Tse areas aah gare & yr ea cearasr Fret Ft area & atest fos at seater afte arpa |
yea 2a aaa oat flere fared aofh

(3) fram 22m, 226%, 224, 224, 22E., 224, 27, 29%, 30, 32, 33, 36, 37, 37%, 38 Ae 40 F
sada, aaa oRadat afea, ta aaa vat az vase SAT

405. qaeror arqarfa ar aeteftacor — (1) 9aeror Warerst TT wea aT & ferme: Yer arpa A-ae-
wat ar fare && seit aero arpa ar vation dae araar Gaerr agai ware St A HA a
aa cea fort cee Sar site frat Frarqare Hare afeafera Sht-

(&) vapor & are;

(@) araren are feu Te Peery Tareas aah sare aT Peas;

() SUTe Ser aT SAT;

(a) afte Raat ft dear Bree foro eet ares Pear WaT TT; at

(=) Gaerr ert wer aes & fore atfers afaice  aah Ft aera Sacra
(2) asa acer aétwom aaefh araaa ore are Ft afsredtpfe srh ora ara At dia fea Ft safer F
ataz asain
(3) wétftecr aaet arta sa aa, free fore qaert aaa & fore araeat rar war Z, % aaa
Tae ae aH BT wT WS at Peettex Fe a-aroeet are Are a ars SAT SMT
(4) asa azar, sa-faam (1) # fafafes aaa-dier & ave aero arqarhe  aaftecor & fore aaa
veda Her FH eu facta ar are awe ae, Teg Fe FH arses Yer atari aaa Sta SB Geet Pear war
Fall
[art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

(5) Yaerr agate & adttreco & fore araaa ar yer rq At safe ware F eet sey acHTT
are fcert Pear sunt ate afe ca arate atest araeat ar farera set Pear oat & aT aaah FT
sa sate am, at aferere Ft aren 7 At So-arer (2) & refer Ter aaah & arte At arafer F

afer at af ar sa sate an free feo araes Pear war @, aT ot aa a, avatar at Gat aaa
ara

408. aaa oe ar vatefterer — (1) Gaerr sar a-ae-aers Te aes Gara oe aditteeo a aaa
aaa ot fore 245 az fare 24@ & aq, zarfeata, artaré Ft orosft

13. He fant F, frre 45 4, Gs (a) Fea 1, fafa Gs car aeTT, sata:

“(a 7) Gat Tareas Fram 220 & area care ate aed, frre 22e. & aefts satatta siz
frre 225% areftes aeitfera, Gat Ara & areas fee STAT”

14, et Frat H, fra 52 ar atte Pear Seat
15. Wer faaat 4, sears X & genre, frafefaa wears stavearfte Pear sre, stata:-
“aeaya Xi
afer
76. arfea- =a fora & soaert ar Peet ft were ar seoraa afeaare Ft arer 21 Ft sa-aret (2) F
srsat Hapa Sears ST |”
16. Wer faa & are | A, ven a aaa, Prefered ved aacearite Pra sre, aate-

“yeq y
AQAT eT
err aaa t-ae-arr TS yart Het & fare araaa
[Fata 40% Fa]
10 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

5: rere ar (Het arafedt aot ar fara ar ara) sofa sereacHat qT
aca ¢ fe afte farre fae, 1960 & aefte qatar aqaa-ae-SA TET. ee (amet arafectt
aeoett ar fara er ATA) aT Tava FAT STI
2. afast Rarra fram, 1960 * frre 40m & aeqare sar ware Sa Ft AN TAT HAT AT TE ZI
3. aafera fare frarqare @:-
(i) [or Tat aes aah HT ATA
(ii) FAT aaah Trea HT, AeA sat ar FTA Fe?
(iii) HOT Referer wares At areata wht sere At ores
(iv) arate rears Ft THAT
(v) aa Ba ahs FH apTarat FY fafa area sarah ar-car At Heat ate are (ae ArT) aT
als GAT TET AT Slt TS MTA-TAL

(vi) afe araeat wer At atta aH arden ore Geer aaarfa vet @, we secre rar aa
carter fe Fa SH AT AT UH TTT ST RATS BH TET BH ere vega far war BI

(vil) & afte ar afast six ara Breer aaah Tae ATT TST SI
(viii) qaeror arqarfea aco AT erates rere fore Yer star A-ae-aerst Ter araeret ZI
(ix) Se ata Ft tar reer aaa Tae HAT ATSAT 21
(x) Ta aa sate ree feo geen aaarfa-ae-aert ver arafera 21 (rem, avecay, a4,
aa a., wale a., at are)
(xi) () FAT arataeH Ta Se ast fora wat afer Sf ree few sa Geert aqarle Ft
HALAHA SF?
(@) afe vet, at eat Sas Teer Water are Hea fer ah caret siz afersrar Ft
aente afore Ft 21 ae tar é, at cart ate afersrar tt ferfera aeafe area At aT
(xii) Fraferfere ar fafere dest ea eu aa ar afore ala:
(®) arcrat arte sre orepfte fasroarsit & aatfera aa At fea
(@) wa, dat areas F, Tia ar aT aA aS Te arr we Rea fore FF aaa Pa
Ta & at yew as aT ah fra fees & few araes far wa Z, Seat aaa
Sree HAT GAT FEAT
uadt. — st eat F ot ar ete Rea asert teat afeafera ehhh
(7) aa eat are H, aft ae, Mot ae Hers SEAT AAT ATA
(4) te eat & feo wat ars At aa vat aT Heer aaa Saeed aT, at ale araea fa

ae ert ar are Aft carer ar ahr-car ferret Geer agar ar aeret ver erat Ft
atarait & avatar Soa Fre At seq ater aaa TS aT Tae arpa ast FT
[art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

arat arta, afe are 2, aa At har & area-ara aaa Pao ae ae at eta eT
veda ft art arfet
(xiii) fort eat & fore araest Pear war @, See asa F Prarqgeare Perfeed Peat sat ariee:
 (*) afe aa ar Hester THM Soeee FA Se Ta A te HT ATH, WH aT TAT
saa ae feet At Gar teat site Aormet Sreae F Fates Pear ara are
uadt.- fra aa & feo area fear wat 3 saa ae aster Heat afar
erm

(8) aa aaa & Areal FH, Vor ale HeTS HSA seats SU THT Te aT SMTA STAT
arfet

(T) BSCSAH THAT AT TT THM AT St HATA A, ST ATTA H At Aecaq Aas
ate orepfter fasroarat, art atte cere fees At ater aaa arth Atar-Saratt er
faeare car feet oft recat, cya six fee fg ar fags a ast ara fatgsit
Ft ot sate EU FATS TS STAT AAT TT AT SATAT STAT ATVT

(xiv) wan srry FH arene afar, 1961 & aefta zearefea aeraa arene Paacoft Great we feu
TUS, Ae aa FH BIT HT AST THAT HT HT TATA PRAT ST AAT 2

(xv) User aeare  afererhear aa fax ahaa sat aat ar faa, Brae aren ar feet off
afer ar saat fea SST 2:

() Wee & at yaar aaa & area at 2;
(@) fore fore tect at arrest Pear oT par S Peed weet AT Pear Tar z;
(71) wap ara Ft araast aT AT TNT SI

(xvi) afeafera fea ft wee, ae are et am

(xvii) af aratae rat At Bava HAT ares Z, TT Sah Ter sie aaa fat aqua are F
aaa rat arieu; ate ae UH Vater Pape HAT Area Z, GT Wa vserH HT ATA, Seah agar, Ta
frat aqua ft waft six safe fafatee ft oft ariee ate sear weal va tere era are

(xviii) aretaen 2 fetta ares
(xix) See 2H fAfee afer & fee aor area At fafarfean
(xx) ate aeq Fafa eat ar arat aaa RA aaah Vea AAT ATEAT ZI

(xxi) [aerr aaarfa-ae-aert Te & fers ardast vega wea a fee wrfape seavearcnal BT orfereet Het
eu ane aratedt at & wrap Ta) HST ATT AT 2

H/ aa roo aed FH Sax few ae an at S ate ares are aa atest Aw aa Alea Peet st
ary Saret HY Tete BTA Fer dare ZI
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

. Weaet Haret UH PaaS es a Hafert Stat ae
2. FAIS FAS AH HT THAT, TT AT Sree St, Aat Sra States Be fore term Pear Sra

arfen, fara wa a ca Tae aaaa Peat aT AT 40 Sea AT SAS HA SM

3. Wet area & are faeqa ator ate exerts areata dts oidat F tere Pear Sra SI”

17. Her Prat FH, epee V vera, Praferfad aqat sta: carte Ft oreatt:-

‘ATE VI

[Fae 2171(2) TAT 224(3)]

(sears ® fre ATaeS site whAT)
werta yet ahreacr & years & fare efter (weétz)
 GAT AAT FA HA ATS aPC yeaa fara Shs (wat)

1.
2.

2.0

arqeattrar
wears & far err
1.1 yearaa ® fer oat
1.2 chr ar at

1.2.1

seartds yearn aftrenenr fry <hr (UT)
1.2.1.1 faaraat At agar ste TTT

1.2.2 Gad ara dare He ae Tearfaa ahsencr > fora Shr (WaT)

1.2.2.1 faaroat At area ate TTT

1.3 ehtr ar fee
1.4 9 cht a aa
wears At aa eaHAT
2.1 area qaraatl

2.1.1

Rater area (fret)

2.4.2 aarttht aa Padres (frrg)
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

2.1.3 qr H aay (FH)
2.1.4 fasroat ® feu ara or
2.2 Ha ara ate aT Teer
2.2.1 atest ® favo az aftere & fer warren veer
2.2.2 fagerrorcre aTTeS
2.30 srard aadcaar, fivveun, ated, Haag ste STEHT
2.4 = Woracd veast Wore (TATA)
2.5 Yaaro (sien), Gast AAT ste YS AaeTa/aaTeraT Pearet Ar Toracar
2.6 areata vidaaar
3.0 Waratah
4.0 year shar
41 artes Paton afar
4.2 9 fora ra ft ofrar
4.3 area fro aa ST ae Geass OT
44 vars ofa aent
4.5 — vearfea werastararett er vent
5.0 WAT Tart AAT
5.10 Fear aT
5.2 yar es aearq Rad
5.30 wearrt ar feta frcedtercor/ rasta
54 waraarequt artnet % fore artars
5.5 zeta
6.0 — frarra fare dat
6.1 frotat fr afer
6.2 attr
7.0 ara afear

7.20 veraeff areat arr saat
10 years fice

waved, aaefiaré ar wa taee ae F aa} Perea, faa aftercot ate cerastararett
afed fatter wrearcat & oret srqe afet yaar siz aaa ars dare He are afc, ASAT
fore gear hte (Braet Sere Tear SATAN ST) Fanfare Ft a
14 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

ae scares F ite Ft ara terest aragrarat, Terasff yoracat argareart Tore sire ara s
ore ateft oiearstt wera ATaes are F Sere Peat wat a1 Shs & fafa seq &-

)   UraraT (frat Tea Ta St TT @) TAT SAle aaT AEATEI

@) Aa Haas — ANAT AL HAA ATA

a) werasft Area Trad aargvareast Wore (ATTA) |

=) fratcr az wears ait ofa

(3) araaat at de wor, fctaa, at a germ, aifaa caer ae

ire & aratearra & fer watt ar ater aie Gara Ta aag oat & aa F oes afer
% aye Ta sania ahaarera a fear Peer wet Sra ZI

fra ae ft rater faeare eee eu rears aT aE Tot ae fare ween cera , Teer etree
aie Tasers ofeat afeaferst 21 ca ae dts ofan F fh aor F arenes ate E-
a1 - waved afar art arate Doar Ft
AU DQ - wearers AY THethy TATEAT
am 3 - aratea Frater

1.14 wearer fac carat

za CATT AAT ATTSS FT TT HA ATA STOTT At Tea *& fore: fare ea eT aT ZI
oa Tome area F aca fea, vere aaect oo att fash aarea oT Pe ororeexfore Hat aT
aadt &, aéachra wat ar aaa (sede az aru fafa), ararect ea afataaat & acelin,
aot fatter At are 25 % aefte cRredied Para, aqeerd Feast Ga See AAT eT AAT

afeatera at aad 21 ere cater ar cafe are & cartes are Ware cacao At aaa Ae AT
afe ae cite ft ast veg arasapareit HY TT HAT 2

(
(
(T) Weare aT aT
(
(

12 amare

ae CA Tsar site Ga ASAT Tae HEA aT atfteweny & ere ales ar faeae Hear S TT
saat Pearé (starz) gar a Rasa Weare are feu Te aa AAT HT TATE HOTT! - AT: TE SAT
ara yearaet & fore feeder ar Prato aca eu te ant F at fase Ft Te V1 arate:

1. wearta yaar arftracor  yearers & fru she (wey)
2. GAT AAT TA HA AT BHT Bh wearers & fre Shs (ari)

 1.2.1 vearite yatert aftracor wearer & fore ehh

Pret ft qaerr afteroor (arate coeff area) at ast ara eat FH fees ae ert
arfew ar cares aaa fare dare aca fer Peet faferce aarp St at fret Paerosrar
after aftercr  ara aaa aT HT Hal Tara Yaseror after aot ytarrhts fears Tare
art & foro aragaen Tern Aare & few cease aadt 1 wie F Perea veqsit at pax Pear
ara aren —

a feferr (arf at aa att ether)
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

a era TAT

7 qeaehrs ase (AT Set TAT Ae)

a sa-aie fates ater, waeruaoe, faftas Pope
z. eefearl wis cera fat

a BATAT [TACT FATT OT

a wera seat

a aeaaettht tere

a aesifrratttrert errr
a. q-aarite atefert

z ararear, afte aarasest Heart
z aon, fefert oreaz ated fefert aret ar acfera weet & fore afar

1.2.1.1 fastest # agar, aya Ta eet

foaré dare eet F afeafera Perea A oR aah (Tae) aT THAT
ay Faeroe (five) afeafera 31 ss eat HF Gach are aera St oT at 21 Paros & fer araeasy
HET Ara sie Sra ST Ts are Ben faeqa wa a ATs TE B-

#1. oa aaah (ert):
#110 aprae aera agar
=. itive & aera sea facateraa, dea a angedT 4
Barats BrarasiRreat Perea aesthrreastRate afr tar
Peary ref oft ferore H areceh (revere) PEaft, AEA
a. area — we Fel aa sae afer At srarfer areenra wher, TSA

#12 oRatsear qaqa HT qa
m srrad reat aS rat aes Be aera aA 15 ae aT aT ars ATT
aa aaa aaa deavfavafteraa/ werfearrs F
rates & wr F aprae 15 aot cH Far vara Hea aver Aah gea/Aaret
afernrPat Ft Sar AAT ITT LAT ATT STOTT
T wane afte, at, ah sftarsva, atefert arrectar, ster wraferr aa,
Rratatiserct atstert cet era
#1.3 yaerr fafirce agra:
Co ohare waar (fet) at aregites Gaerr oRatsrrrat Ft asa are Water
a dated faforce aqara erat are
a erage terete Ft Rorettt ate aratearr
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

T Rraraitired steer az Rra-arfetie Peer

a quae, warars 43-101, Aateret aar waucnaeet feats sea
ATA SAAT ATA are Saag TAT HLT

z. amr a ae dts atari Reaté dare at we SM
ats searite Reoet (erat waar, ferret years arfe) Fr Farhi
(S.) Ae (A) HT AT HUT EU Het AN

a
1.4 afar aaeaas (Geen) & ara Hee:

Sg

Rar aaeaa BT Tater Br Tore, aragaenaratt Ft A areata arfet sar featé
aa eet, avatar afafian, gern Pare aan ast are fafa site cae Serrerat FH
feu ae feor-freert & aaa star aTeU Ses TFET TAT Yara sagas AT eyes TqTITCUT
AT ATT ATT STAT ATPRT Ses ST LAAT BHT ToT HF AKT AEA FH ATT ATT HAT ATFNTI
Rasa arrears & tara art Pears z:

eae Fafarce atest ar cara F cad eu afar faerrarat, a Ratsrar ata 2h fears eater Ft
apt aaa et arferi

ohana Preera/earet & ara ton, Terr arian fore orth Tare HAT

arr, arestasit eae, Barat, aesihraratsh, ts aor are & ager F ea TAT

Safer carat aa ate Cis FH TTA SH TTT HTH Sear H Pore ty H fers TTT
arate ® fer caret ar Ste

Avs & Ratet at white Heat car ater ear Rreavt arnst ar fageromr atx faetat saga
art arfemi

Haran qaarhrs Pore dare Hea TIT Bea ates ahaalS & fer wear aaeat & Shs ohatfers
wear car Pare Ft qorar afafera BAT!

 aha freerateartrat & ara sree aaar iten Pearé oe saht fecoft & fore sat BTA

faoroara & Ferrera sat Ft ceare Ft we 3 ST Sa aera aT ae ere aaa E-

(i) Retest sia
(ii) ratPeferrt itt
(iii) Petre Aer six sftaréwart ATT
(iv) wafer UaTAT
(v) eragtisrttettstt wast

2.0 wath ae fasta (ater) :-
2.1 area ters agar

R. irieastas F aera seat favafearaa, deat & fara car aer favat -
Sfraréca fret off foe Fareed (Tareas) afore
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

a. oat (Refer), eae aie eeerae Sas ae aad facet A arae
fefivfeetreat at eae aaaer foe aie owe aitfiverediae areaa-ore
faPrareraaearet & rarer fare

T. 6 Are aie sae afer At arate ated wheres

2.2 cath ae fase (Aes) & fae aaa aT

co

wa fasrost at yaernseaite Rare dare aed] fer date cath attr oars F
PTAA 5 AT BT ATT as STAT TST

aafad eat Fara aed oe qaariae, seatfechifasr, Rate afer atx sftaréva fastest six
aerate co eT H FePIRwT art Pamtverrottarqaart
qearifeatarcairetarcrat + praca 5 sat a few aarftaa/aarea aferat a
fra fear sat

# aeram

2.3 vers dvd fru ate tre ada ak apart
2.3.1 cathy a fasta — years (sits):

a -pratare aah fore faery Atfers agar

i. we oasis at sa TAs aera-se fares F fro
ates / rare Peart Harare feat / wa ea

ii. atefta - 6 ATE aire saat atten Ft ara & eta Tierra
qo aratera aa & fare fate aqua & Prafetad aftates er aheT

i. q-aary Teer, APT site Stet SaTeaT H aaah pT

ii. q-aarite Rratat, afr atetert ate after tere Ft ora

iii. ATE, Seared, Rraratee, aerate, ats, atetas arf sa wasery FT

STANT Hed EU saeH FHT AtSet TA FAT
iv. yaar yaaa eeereoreit ate aero hare & ofr stam
v. 23st Fifer ster Ft caveat site yaar AT gar alsa Gare |e Ft

wea SAT

vi. wrepfte caret at aaenha wer ate sett ahs yea aaarita wer Ft
wee ETT

vi. aft Gaerr & aafeet Geer ster AY carer aa & few sg ate
Farrer HTT STATI

viii, BITAT / ATT AAT Ase Tae HEF Ta aT AT BT TATA SAT
7. arate sacar

R. aa Ht ytery pretreat At SETS HAT, THAT HT FT ATA ST TsTSY TATE
aAT|
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

ardt carat oz Peter Hear, ATEN, Wears ate ats aya oe Feather Hear
TAT HT ALT TAT HAT

ade afaart amare aa, ater Aaert ate q-aarhts atest Tare ate WeTT
aAT|

atta artcat sit feet are Ponies ast arat at dire, wlafert stk
wafer FAT

ATT Saag H TAT AAT ate Gero Star HT VPS site areqehert HAT

at srg acart fafraat sit fafeat ft srrear wear car Sar ATT
aAT|

Tse ae sass Pert F oa Wearat yaar site aftr saree FT
Feat FAT

Tartare ate areas Atsrat & fre ster & fag, aetar aie Garqara art
aa afro yaar at fafa eer At aertar ae aes HoT sie TaeTt
aera RITE Tae BAT

ata yaar At aera BT aaa Her few soees sivas, weeds
ate area yaar Reoret ar aera STATI

2.3.2 cHearhy aa faster — yates fears (sir):
aratars eta & ferg fafatiice ators agare

wR.

UH sey Tass at SAH Aes Aras Pa Prerrerayatea Fe PT-a
aifechtfaara / rqraee ear retifaarrat F arava feat / wae

6 Are ate sae afer AY arate & ater wera

wre dr Fre aA rg Fi Po ree

TTT TAT cot ate SoH HT STAT Hea ET fase aerst aed F
aie water Fh AtsraT Tava sire Se Foarfet AAT

ST aS Tae He Sete aH Tort at arpa ar Ae fears a ore Patt
area afea y-atiaen fafer tare BeAr

faftra qeatite caftat F va fare atic qot H feee area, aahtr
AIA, TAT, As sie TR atahtar are ateakera SI

Wher ae seeatas

Saeed Heart HAT siz caerulea rsa ser At TT Tae ATATI
at sam ster, saa satis eters afet 2et ate 3a aeeita orreart
HAT

Stet area are wT ae anata aiee-eat  Saaee Ponat ar yeast
wT
 [art I—ave 3(i)]

FIST BT UST» AATAT OT

iv.

 Vv.

vi.

 afta raaratt ar cat ars & fer soar At Reatfea Ft ofa ar Sea

Ser Tart, aT Paar FH fore Hecqect ar STAT HAT ake TATA TAT
aA carat eT PAT HAT BHT

seatax Praga cath, Gachrasue Satay site safes aeret AAT
ster Ft caveat, thors aera site Rate Tare HAT

wate RarSt BT CaCSTa HAT SAL SA ATTA PATI

 STH HT STAT FATS AT TALATT HEAT

usa att ss Fiat a ore Set ariel

¥ 2.3.3 wath aa faetast — Rate Sherr ate sftergva (area):
am. rate fee FIRE A ef

rasstas aera ora featerraaeat at zeae aaqea & fete
Tears et faoe A fear
ATTRA UH. S/T. AT SAH TATA FAT

aT,

starve F Ae alt ea/Pate sft / eardte fears / fa feehty separa eat
AT BTS eT ATT AT

atefta - 6 ATE aire saat atten Ft ara Beta ier asa

a. rater Sr Fare FAIRTRE argere 8 Prafa afeates ee fee

sitive, starve atx arisfiaréue 10, epfteréua, scare ear, fefirert
mremmradt wa Rate aft atreaax ar eata-ara

cardia Fagan, Stet veers eet, aracet faz sea arhsitarsca free sae
TTA

Haws Serares THT F ATA!

 7. aera seats

AEATSS STE HT STANT HUI SU Hla Tae FIAT, FATT AT TAT SATTATI
oRarsrrat ® fore aaa Hea atte Sftarsue ar frat ar Pape AAT

waa avarat, ster faye, Aq aaa ate featé aa seq afer
ohare oz Fa gee ar fer ear BI

arat tye Her = fore fafaer ohare site faferat ar sas STATI
cara fercar & fore Gare wr ATTA

# 2.3.4 cedtht aa fares — etert (Tay):
a. = raters aa & fore faery aes agar
20

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

we aeardt aera sear A ater A qterfers fever ake
Shitcaca = fatearest arr aaa WATT-7s ae AT A ATT ST AO
aay Ta aed ATAT STAT

6 Are ate sae afer AY arate & ater wera

a. raters or Fare AIRTSE args 8 Prater afeetes ear sree

caraphay TaN, Asst Saas ASAT SATA ST HTT AT AT SPT!
yaar yaaa eeereoreit ate aero hare & ofr stam

aaa creat F Peo aT Aes ate WoT afea Aaa Stet Ft eétear FT
Wea BAT

sare AY ae, Tees, aafera ferteat Ft wor Hear site sez Fargas SAT
arret / ad Gt A ATA

7. Pr soat

vi.

 vii.

viii.

 aaa feo ort are eat a date Strat & are F Tara wa HA fers
fafern fReatet, ager Pearet atx aft oftat et ator era

froarea art ® feu sara & Rater, qa aie areera ®& fore aaertt Ft
wacar, Ay, featé site fafern careat are HEAT TAT SAT TAT HAT

aaa Ft data aft ace F ster, are, vale, Au, Rare aie cea aT
HOT At Ses WHAT ATI

faarrart, uftaeadt, ert atx aceree orate witaa oifterh faeer
(frites) ar rant aed Eu ase eat FH aecaryot faerraratt ete Ararat ar
Rarrax Tay aatter rather HAT

Soha siz areqenert arf, arent & art site oR a aaa ates erat
a frepat a ay AAeay PATI

aaared, Ueltsert site ater ant fers are cari wer few dare quarter
At ASAT SAAT att SA aT ATI

crarphas aaa, TATA ahs AAT

wate err artearat % fre aatta each ar Tar TAT aie Sees Pfs
eT aa Fetes aT area aha Sera Ar Ta ars fore yaa ATI

* 2.3.5 wedtht a fares — werftarst (wash):
. rary dex Fre FAFAPRTRE srs arg

ireirsretas aera ora feeatrercaatear at sae sages Prater
a waters, waftart ate wer Aare vse Se fog F faaravsrarhrst +
ararax feat ar sah ager feat

atefta - 6 are aire saat afer Ft arafer & etre wikerer/aTerHa
 [art I—ave 3(i)]

FIST BT UST» AATAT OT

21

q.

% 3.0

m 3.1

rater Fe PAPAS ge 8 Pre stents etre

vii.

 ara we, vate A Saga, Ware eH & Aafeala aadt serdar
ster ar Faeqoror ear; TPT ceers SS Hea site Sat caveat Hear, aft
set atferet area site farerett Fea dare wear, afer set Pest ah Tora
HAT, WaTS Se AT PST SAT
aot arp ht Ft cartfet ea

sara fasroarat aatq wrearerar, Pare, sero aot aries ar faster itz
aot HAT, ote TATA ate Pearse feat ar AAT TAT, TT AT TTT
ATT Blt TATA AT TAT PATTAT

afeara az aintifern arere-aarrt aaa faacoveatea Serfearra/ fare fee
yeaa fart Fa Tae HAT

urea ate css iat a RR sacs grat Aree

yore a aafera teat, feer-frgert siz fae BT AAETATI

war oie sere

arts ahora, sat frartt ara, Set vate Sa Wet Gra Sora ster safer
CAT

art Het Ware (eaten stereo ate Peas ax afea) At Ga-epaar Sh ae of ate
saat Tora waa: Aftor seen fafa, as |e at fate ar ga: wht Arar fate
are at Te ah

seared Thar ares are aa F aga-fe are area At y-rersarrt aah
feafe # Rada

aot aaeq (eH)

Prafefad aaaz vara eet & fru ga Shite Ff aot ae’ ar sade afeafers Peat war

@

mi. art aa aqadt afen fag se afer Hart & fre aera Ft aaah

a. are ate ar Peart Hea Bh fre aaa Paros

T. we aT at wa aga afore ae ae zt fhe Aes at eet FF aqua
AMALAHATAT BHT TT TET HET Fl

a. eae sa-erae faeroatt & fea ze Sars SI

aa aaeg & areata arf

za aeq (Atva) & srtfera = FH ae Set ate Avs & ary Aa a aie Par -fasf
art & as af srt ater art & fH oes aaa aa A Pero ore eft safer
wae aortas Salt Taqat & set ara Heres site stat F feo aT aay ae
At Pearé dare aes Oe A Rar SAT are
22

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

3.2 faareat ft aravanard/sracre fares Ft der:
1.00 ORT Hara Se-erse SIT The (Gt afer ATH) |
2. @aarite fed dare aa B afeatera ares ea-arse FIA aTfeT (Ger arfers
ware)
3. eft ft dea, Ba ger A oe @, He Ue aaa ee-zise TT
aaa (sta), UH ea-sree ctu (ste) sar aTeT

4. ay due sa-area at tae A afeaterd err arfeul aos ar afar FT
aaa & aqare sre Err ar At aleatera Hear ATT

1.2.2 aaa apr Pa aftacn (wade) & gears & fore Sr

aaa ahr fate aftecor (ori) ter acer are aqaifed arrat site ofearat
ATA GAT AAT TAS HO TH aaa ast BT gat Are eat A fasrost sar
arfeu at Sah UT ATT GAT ASAT Gare He fore Peet Ht Re aa At at SA ae
Pret aero eros arth afteecot & ara aaa ATTA ST WHAT Zl ATTA WE SAA ASAT
 Tae He are ATH (WOAATAT) GAT ASAT BHT Ta-Tas RATE TAT HLA
fora arafera Aare & few coast & aad 21 ceaifin F afetea ceq afar arr
afer:

aftare six frac erat & fore aat AAT

frac ate aera erat a Yara ret aera

aftare six frac erat ar facae ores Tare STATI

fage erat & fore Taree ASAT

ert oRararratt ar catrht-arhe yeatrT

PICT STAT AL Tee ay aT TET

aftare site faa erat & fers ae wre hht ora site aTTATATI

afecard siz fare featet et tare eT

4a ad a4 49 AG A

1.2.2.1 faire carey & oe, aaa at art

wat ara dare wert F afeafee fasroat F after anaes (aaa) ate aati aa
Faeroe (five) afeafers Si scht Serra sea Bh aeT HT TH V1 erat At aaferat agar six
aaa oar sah fore ofeafera aferarat ar cater Are fear war 2:

a1. ofa aaeaas (@aat ahr)

@1.1 agaran fern area

co aaa sifiaetfa arent aa A ue aedtea/ wate fet ar
feaftraraa aqert avant afafaara, 1956 (1956 ar 3) Ft arr 4 & ait
feaftaraa aqara art art arerar ove Peet ot deat afea wae Ar
afafiaa, wa wedi afatae at a use afafaa aro earite ar frie
at can ae wa feaftarers art aqed anges feaft ar area ears art
wee A Aree Ae ATTA oa Pet ot fears aT EIT ST AST HIE
at ages Mert sea |
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

23

q1.2

@1.3

a. ated - 6 are aire sae afer Ft rae & Gera Tierra
Raa Aaah HT APAT

i. srt aen feat & ye ata F are 15 ad ar aa arate art aq
SMT Gat AAT Fae HH fr Us ae ae SIT GAA ASAT A ToT
frat saa

a, FT aqas TT Het H few Aes sears arar/aqdard earat/
featerrataetraraat # =H 15 act & fae aaaaaad

 afeentRat a fare Pear area
aarfte atefert et F aera
Gat Aart Gare Be Gael AM e aq:

gata area (fret) at freaferferr sare ar Gat ara Gare He Sate Far

arya erat are:

mR, HA A BA 3 GAT AAT Ga HEAT

a. 3 aaa are Ft Port (a-araerieraert Rare, eer whem, freaer
aerate arta),

T. (*) itz (@) ar Prarat Got AT

Rasen area & rte art (@aat aha):

Rare aaa (Gre ata) BT aeqatfed areat site ofearat & aqare Aart

aeart are art antreert Ft cart H cad eu aaa ana dare Het SNH ae aE

veda feu ae ster ft aétear & fore sacarht ait aaa Esitfrae Gat Sarat AT -
sari fasrrarsit aie ACTA FT cart H Tad eu seared ae ara Fara seeat ar

Te wert Haan art art aarse Gare Hed S ae SerhT waa AT Fert aed ZI

Rae Farah BT Gert ASAT aeterrait At areeht Serer ert arfew ate are

aed fate care ae aaelt feon-fréer, wavasten afafian, froat ate at are

fafrarat car sad eu aerreat & ft cha att arfer Saat Gert Ara atrerrsit AT
ere atte At orerart ert afer aed cer a eg aaert ara sa TTT BT TET

HAT aTfeul

aad aT sare HT FT TTT F Patera artrars afeaferst are z:

i. faega attifers feaft, ata afar, ater site oat afar, Geer ar sate,
aaah ate Tet TT ere AT EAT, SST AT TAT, HTS C/A ASAT
Wald, sah Aare ae, wefan, wares, ara sites, afer are, serera,
ais sears arf Tar sea

ii. aarfect trarftex, repens ware, West thaex, entree AETzI

iii. am fart, afer ft aft aa, afte ate cast var ar sam, wet
frrert

iv. wa-aaem, sa-fafaea t (arateraahaat), arg aac, eaft cay, vatacr
feafe, arariis-arhts, acta veq si aaa art ated aera are Ft afer
24

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

q2.0
q2.1

@2.2

Aaa Tart HOT few ant ast ae Haast HF Tae ae Tataey ae aT
BT SoS HOT Arey TAAL aT ATSTATI

v. apy ah Taare HT AT-aTe FEAT

vi. gat ae arg dated artery ae Het are fara vatacefte seat & fore
art Ft farcrett aca

vil, OTT TATU AIST Be Para Se TEA ASAT

viii, | aaa, Tae site set HT aTTasts Hea F Ages eA Ft TTA!

ix, ea ANAT site aeat azo date aha reaferat

aaa featé ate aera are wee fore Gara Faroe UH TET aT 21

GT AAT ae Soret H fore Tah ers Farstost

aartrhy a Fastest (étrS)

wat area sit ores ft oH ag-aqrraarcasy BHATT SF Hel We Her ah Gat
Faeroe (was) erat & rat aaa AT TATE He HT ATT aT SA TT aT
art arfenl sae ore Prafeed soar ert are:

*) aaa Ft eee, ST ATH, aferrat, erat site fafa Ft sears
TSAI
@) area, Sart At vate ora aie aT

Prafeted fags aat at ceara fear war 2 Brest araeaean sa aeraat & fer
erat &:

i. art Stat UAE

i, tT fara wastteait
ii, «90 Rate Af atk steer ACT

iv. fafa, Paes aie are

v. fears az fat Uy at 0H
vi. arash arf wae

vi, Tala, career aR AAT eUaaa
vii, Iteeitht (ar fers) sttet

ares & fore gras Aer aga

R. art iftrtieat ara aa at ue ateteay uate fet ar
feaftarara aqeart avant afafara, 1956 (1956 ar 3) #t aver 4 & afte
freaftearaa aqart arnt art Areva oe Peet ot dears alee wH Aker
afafiaa, wa wedi afatae at a use afafaa aro earite ar frie
at can ae a feaftarers art aqed anges feet ar area aeare art
 [art I—ave 3(i)]

FIST BT UST» AATAT OT

25

qT.

Wee A Aree ae ATTA oa Pet At fava aT EIT BT AST HTS
fh ages Mert aga |

Pah ore eet ae Ga AT A UH Tae aca &h aes HT HA HT ATA (3)
 atta give apa

atefta - 6 ATE aire sae arfeen Ft ara & aera wher asa

a23 &ugs fu aa aaa

co

um frost at Gat AAT dare HA FH fore aa fers ah acta sar F
apres 5 ae ar ar arate SAT ATT

aafea eat Fare aed oe Aas aaa Pati ATeatarqeaarst AeaTA/
Raearaatinatarcat F saan wa at & feo aahqaaar
afearRat ox fare Pear sat

yaar atefert cet H sera

@ 2.4 vern avg > fare faery stores sear ae aT
@ 2.4.1 aadtht as faaes - aaa shia (wag):

wR.

rater aa & fore faare tern agar

i. aaa sifirtivaga aan aa x ue dey eat oedt
ah jocmars/caen Raft a eaters aqert avant afafras,
1956 (1956 aT 3) At aver 4 & afta feeafteres aqardt aT art
arerat ore feet ft dears afea us Ade afafian, wae wedi
afafiaa a ue ose afatiae art eartta ar faire at eae aceite
wer feeafterera arr aged sages feat ar area ATH aT ATT

atex att rere wre Peat oft featteraa at dearest ST aeat FTS
fh ages Mert aga |

ii. atefta - 6 ATE aire saat atten Ft ara & eta Tierra
erates a ® fore fee aqua a Prafetad wave afte sat are
i. GAA FT Ta-Saae Ta aes Ta Fae TAT LAT

ii. aaah Hraravard/ate-ard ATA Pere Ses TTA CATS AAT
ii, aT Mo ate ae ae BV a art avert A STA

iv. 1 @aret rent eat ate araerrcorratt Bt SATA

v. ae, aT ae targ aftat few caHtht-aries raertan
vi. SAT STEHT BT ATA HT ATA

vi, ata fees & fae Ther H oraerite aera

vii, «= Teak aT STH ate Paferat ar Sores sara ae SaAT aT
aarat
26

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

ix. q-faam, sfaréua, a sit saree, aaa fata six veg aafet GT
aerarh Fast AT ATA

7. rar att sacar

i. ret Atay sare HAT se GT AtoraTat Ft STLET Tae HAT,
TAA STAT BT STANT HAT SAT ATT HT SPSS Hea HT STAT

ii. aaa & aftorat site ofa ar seca aed areft aaa ara/qa-
ATA AAS AAT GATT HAT!

 il. afte Grr AST, STs Area Peart A Tse STeT ATTA LAT

iv. Gat ASAT AAT AT STA -aaat area & fore atsrar, feoret
att aise fer aTFeaAT AT STAT ATI

v. afast oRetes, estas forest a aah Hy AI SAT ASAT AT
® fore ASAT SEAT

vi. ararfen, ara, Tas azar aris Scaraa ASAT GATT ATI
@ 2.4.2 cath aa faataa - art yaahts (Tassie)
a. raters aa & fare faery afore agar

i. ve oaittiearsdtéts arate AT TTT
fafrarraeart & faoa-qftara / aqya afer F aracaraz
fet / wae

ii. atefta - 6 ATE aire saat atten Ft ara & eta Tierra
@. waters aa & faru fase aqaa a Patafad wre aeasy sa areTw

i ATE, STeraved, foratatee, aresatee, acts, atetes anfe ser
VASRZ BT STAT He BU aes Frpra Ateet TAT FLAT!

 ii. 23st afer ster Ft arreat aie years Aq ate ater dare
aed Ft area STATI

iii. aad art, Starsua, fete, aaa aia & fw ada & aratfeaa
arent eat ar ara aire tps
7. afta aie sacar
mi, aa Hyder artrerrat ft carafe wear, Waeror ard Ft arta site

ase Fae HAT

a. arét carat oe fefetr aca, doen, qeates ate aftr agat a
Peart aecar Tar Ht AAT FATT TAT!

7. ade afar ararita aa, te frat, aeons site qari ater
ae LAT

a. afta atarkat ax feat aro froofea ast arat ar fratfera,
aaaters at va feta ATI
 [art I—ave 3(i)]

FIRT FT UST: TATATRT

27

3. ard Seas H AHAT GAA ste Gaerr ster at sofas site arqefert

aAT|

7. at saa arart fafrrat six faferat 4h caveat ear gar ear
ATTA PAT

B. wets ate sos ysert A wa vearat F aaariss site alae
SATA HT Hea PLAT

a. wart ate carat ara & feo ster ® fagon, after ak
qarart art et afar yaernt ar fratia wert Ft oraertar a
AAT BAT BT AaTSTS Hema Rare Fae HAT!

 a. afr yaar ft aaraat ar areca wer H fore sore siteaers,
VAST He AT Tare PLIST HT ATTA BAT

G2.4.3 cadtht aa fastest — Rate Aft atx siaréva (area):

wR.

rater aa & fore faare tern agar

frat srerhrét # fet aaat ercara ities area oa
Pratrarcaaeart ara sarh aaes y-Para/aagrae y-fasrrasret Fee
ares fare

aaa,

atefta - 6 ATE aire saat atten Ft ara & eta Tierra

a. raters Se Ferg Fete ages 8 Paterg ent eta sft

arésftarsca, vapfteréva, exert anfe aa sfteréva ak fate aftr
arreqat sar safa-aTeT

cardia fag, Stet weet ea, aracet fagquao se arheftersue fae a
ATTA

Haws Serares THT F ATA!

 7. afta aie sacar

Rate afm, sttereua, sfrttva,
ferent Freres,
cared feacar & fare qare wT ATTA

G 2.4.4 aaHtht ar fasta - Tae (TaN)
 %. rater Sr fa Fate As eae

UR aearet Araa-asT seat F ater A yates fevvfeciar sie
Ssitcava a fafearesa art AFA TAT TT TTT LAT Ae aT AT
aay Te ASAT ATT STATI

6 Are ate cae afer Ft rahe atedta-qera wfserer/arerra

@ —- erates a > far fate aq a Pafafad aaa afte star afer
28

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

7. afrat

vi.

vii.

viii.

 caraphas TaN, Asst Tae H ye asa STAs she TATA AT AT STATI
yaar yaaa eeereoreit ate aero hare & ofr stam

aaa erat FT feo ae ares aie maT aed aaa eter FY acta AT
Wea BAT

sare AY ae, Tees, aafera ferteat Ft wor Hear site sez Fargas SAT
BA AI GAT F AT AT

at saarest

aaa feo ort are eat & date Strat Fe are F Para ora HA few
fafern fReatet, aero Pepret atx aft oftat ft ator aca

froarea art ® feu sara & Rater, qa aie areera ®& fore aaertt Ft
waar, Au, ford ax fafa orrear dare HT TAT Sa eee HAT
aaa Ft data aft ace F ster, are, wale, Au, Rare aie wea AT
HOT At Ses WHAT ATI

faarrart, uftaeadt, ert atx aceree orate witaa oifterh faeer
(sitive) ar soar ect eu ade aat F qecagt fasrrarat site Para aT
Rarrax Tay aatter rather HAT

Sohtaae az areqerert arf, arent & art site oRatsrar a aaa ares rat
ropa & areat Tarasy ATI

aaared, Ueltsert site seq ant fers are cari wer few dare yeast
At AST SAAT At =A AAT Ret ATI

craps aaa, TATA ahs BAT

wate err artearat % fre aatta each ar Tar TAT aie Sees Pfs
oT aa Teaterars azar aver aft Searat ar ar aT Wars HAT

 © 2.4.5 cadtat aa faatoa - afar, frage site ata (ATTA):

wR.

aratara aa & fora fafatttce stern aang

 araat owe fattest azat verdes art aqaiea derma &

Tha fea aiheot + fered. Sifety wemersier
ml

ated - 6 Are ate are afer At rarer ena wher/aTSa

@ = - erates a > fare fate aq a Pafafad aaa ofa star afer

arra-fie site apfare drat erat & fru fara aosaret ar area
Wert att area eresters faces cat oRaga aca ate fee

BrP, WaT AX Ta-TATS FT Tae
 [art I—ave 3(i)]

FIST BT UST» AATAT OT

29

iv.

 vii.

ararefiran ate aoa Frat & fee aragae ater ar Tat ars fore A
at area fae arash ar eter BAT

afea fea worferat ar feast ae ara Tare HA F STITT HAT
afhet ate areraract se fagqa soem area aS TATA We ATA HAT
art arora Fh fers as are Hatt AT ATT Be THETA F TAT

7. Wher ae Seats

xi.

fafaa aadeaar forest (Ta, Serer faa, ae wave aaa) ar ores
AT TAS

BATA GATE HA GAT HAT Seteit Alte (Ata) area

ofa af afar vei eft (was caun) arterar area

are aree afte, qn atefert art art ay AAT

gare ar ares siz aris gers Ft fafeat ar arateara

zafte afer ate aah freer (asthe) ate aera
wreanhrst eqraTT|

fag ate qftere dat arat F are wit ace era face

erat aT Sort ara serra (rege site Short TeHN) sie Ga BHT Ft
aac a arti

“Seat Saale HSA ACTA” TL TATA

ast ara fase aigeaar fare ate arect aa Fare

sites ark Fart fa

G 2.4.6 Teeth ar Paar — favors site faa (wa site WH):

wR.
i.

ararers aa & fara fafafes ters agar
tvarteequ azar wate aes Hea
atefta - 6 are aire saat afer Ft arafer & etre wikerer/aTerHa

a. rater Se Fee Fare re 8 Pret seme nf eter Te

ofa, aste site fart Ft arftrisaen reertar carte er F reyes;

aret  aftrer At veara serrat % feo aht-ariers, afrarat att erat FT
fafa feu art aaeft Foi

fassed anid set faves sara & scared, Tora & fer atfere sara ar
ape Pear STAT SI

afte wart FY aearearcoT ATI

7. after ate sacarhitct
30

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

Frege oats anre at Fert aoa
afer Fagor aera

oRasat araertanr ar Hat site aremt fag
TTR BT TTS Se HATH ATTA

aaa TAHT FEAT

@ 2.4.7 wade a fastest — aarisrs-arfeta (wag):

*,

Vv.

aratere aa & fore aera afere erat

amr aeariaart faraortte fara wafers ATra-2rral/

atorararactia sigma oredtt arava aprr/vatacfts ara,
faararcrs faara F arearax aft

aay
arty fara att veteran seiorearhtes aarsterreal/ Tater tet
waste (oT Tater)

aay
area are avarisrn fara aateft for

aay
aret eedteye ath ateret area, sferae sefteqe ath Ateret arse, cys
eefteqe ate faerie, qaray wrens, WAay FA ATeTaT WTA
 Heart Ae eq reara Hera F AAT H 2 aia araarac fee

ated - 6 Are ate sare afer At rarer eT Whe/aTSTaT

a. raters Se Ferg Fete age 8 Petre ser ent ear fee

vi.

 vii.

marcia aed ATE Tal) west are qearest (ferent
Trt year (AAT) ATE A SaaS aTATisry-aT ls AAT BAT

aera feafe veda Het & fee SeeoraT artnet & afesert ox fate rer sare
sata sft aeftacor oie SI

AAT ATALAHAT ACHAT ALTAT PLAT

wre att testa sat eat Ft ararrr-are feat ar yeaa
aAT|

UTAH TAT IT Tae HEA sire ata Pent Hes at era wats BeAr
ft up afette farce arf

fara ofaisrarat atc fara At avet & fearita anit & fare th oe ae
ferme arate ae Ga eaT TT (AIK US A) ATT PATI

fara ohare & sere arate oat ar areectt
 [art I—ave 3(i)]

FIST BT UST» AATAT OT

31

fasrost & Praferte afatin ated &
© ats are get a aaa Aiea, feo Preett ete args At aT
eo afore aot & feare Rasa ar averse wares are
@ 2.4.8 cert a faster — Taare, TaTeey aT AAMT (STATA):
a, fats wa & raters ae & fore sero agar

i. water esters, fafea, serait eshte ar estat afar at
ares F tte ahs oH

 i, ater — vee deat (ra Horas, areuetare, wraredtares, wrared,
aaedtrht frat use are & aTerar wre sh. fecetraja cata (strearthrs
TM)

a. TSR a Sera oe Ferg egg 8 Pre anf err Te

vi.

 guava yaa faeent sic sata atredae At sepe aay

aaa arrat atc faa AT sear

arariers fears veat Ft aera sara (Wace flea, TAA HAE)

fade wo a ge Jeni, Ta BT, Sal BIG, Sra safe H saat site His are
fara & faforear

wate gare sae fafa Rare frarfeaa aca eu softest ate waist
feat Ft AerzaT BAT

fata we a aaa Sart Fazer aferars we FH arqere srt afew

7. par ate sacar heer

TATE, Aa Ae Talay vaerst H Terra AA FH few aeqareray, aaa Ta
MPA AT AT ALA AHA CATT HAT SAT ASTATT BAT

arene caeaar, saa caress, araftre vader site oraara ofhar # ate
aaeft freee

Terral we carat  ara-ara Ewa sree ate uaa viareit eT sare
Taal

Taree arian, Aeat atx viarat ar erat, fareara wear atx wafer AAT

aeferd ofareat sia (waairiea) site are F ara areft atarat ar fazer Fare
al

G2.4.9 cath ae faetrr — y-cHt sh (sith):
@. fafare wa & aratare a ® fore serftrs agar

i, fafae, ce Aafere ate yoo reht Sait ar soit afar ar araet FH

athe AS oH

ii, atfeeat — 6 are ate sae afer arate ar Gera wert aS
32

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

a. fate wa a arate aa & fore aq F Prafetad afte srt ae

i. Prareftr cham, atten of otter, gate ates orf arfe ae fora
oe reer

ii, chr-prferdt Siorrtert (arch) ret 10 at. ar sae aterm care F feet
ae Tae a ST A ATT STAT ZI

ii, Lote Fat Ft srs, fagqoor site ateferm
iv. atceter re site StH Atfeett ar yaar fear
v. ware Ta, art Aare are

vi. acted, araTqEe agra aoa at ape aaa fee fast
fasrrt & are FretaHt BT ATATI

7. ofan ate sacar heer

i. gat wat & fro carat aret

ii. afrra afareat & fer afer, ase six fovea

ii, = art ait citrate feral

iv. - efert Sa fase

v. Faere fare

vi. ofeeat ATT ite TAT ST HOTT HT STAT HH Bla ALTA

@3.0 at acey (fica)

@ 4.0

Praferfad ar aaax vara aed & fre ea aia F eet sae’ ar Soret mrt Pea
Tae
art aa arqadt aire Peg sa afe F ara & fers aqara Ft ath
waters ata ar reat Her *& fer adara Faeraat

7 ta aT Toe agar aaa aed ae 5 a Oe a
Eres ar St AY eqsres arargeenacat HT TT TET HT SI

a. at o-area faaroat & fra we Sarasa ZI
ae aaer & refers art

 za aaeq (fin) & atfera & fe ae aa art aa HE aie Ateiva & Se at aay
frarc-faast stat & ae ae sre ater ard & fH oes art ara F fasrosrat ore ent
sare yee aera sare Hae Tegal a see oR a Hart ate sta F fu ae aay
wear At fare dare weet oe Se feat Sa aT AeT

faroat A araeanattvarasae faereat ft dear:

1. afar wae S-erea Err afew (er ar fers BAA A) |
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

33

2. am apr faté dare eet A ofa fase ea-ersa at afer (et aries
arart)|
3. Pret ft aoa, fra arerar at ort 2, ore we aqaifed sera char
TaraTs (GAA), UH Fa-srea Fis (GAA) SAT ATT!
4. aq dud sana a tacitee erat anew aa At aragarea aT HST
are ore fore at aft orfier Hear ATT
1.3 aya ar fea
at aétea, arpert ofeat, aera arade Set ata aragaearat afea sa apra At aeT
AALAHATA BT ATT HLAT SI
1.4 ete ar aerdtacr
ATTA Arora Ther THAT Ht Si AaTesT A Terae Ae AAT FH ST AAA-AAT WT TATA
A Tares Pau ST Tera SA ate THTaeteray F TAT aT Her H fer Tar ar ATT
patarsrawdt sat & ore arr oRrarait ate cite arte F, sit oft Ste aati, soir Hr Fe alt
aferre a artaat & rape & PH a aot aera Perey ge:-aresaraersarsr aT faeae at
sata fer aS HLA A Teer Fare TAs Sat Ft Aaaree (http://nabet.qci.org.in/)T~
watt TTT Ta
2.0 aera > fru aaa

woreft-ararite shearer ara 2 fer areca sae araeanare feefta Ft rs S1 hts A aera
fou frafafed ae arasers aracaercrat ay fares rar wat 2:

 i. As Fae
ii. ara Feder site varrerren Ft erareat
iii. sre afar eta, fiteway atpeday, arate ate STH
iv. TOIT Ta TTT (FLAT)
V. Peatet Fr Worrat
vi. WTSATAH TetaaeaT
vii. ATTA ATT FATT SST MAT HT ALA AT
2.1 ATs aT

yaar fear site aaa ata Tar ara aren dare Hear areca H ag-faoeht afaatea z, frat qatar,
aad ae Sanaa Tat F Sree safer Sra z, ras fre Peaté Gare At ore

2.1.1 Tats wares (et)

qa wae ar aaa are Fore oaeret art arfer Het At aia F ofa Z,
Rater a aera aie ana, ett aera, Ett Hh ATT Ase TET, HTS ATT Tae HT aT AS
34 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

 afafere azar fe fea care wer, aah SareaT Her se atast he ae-aetea Ta aragay Rats  ca-
cara & feo atest ar at vat Fear ST
ote & fore sragasy start Prarqare & —
© oRaseT araeerrarelt, wheat ate afore ar pares eT
© oRatser ar faa at art ates afer, Pert ate faterat Ft aera
eo wre Ft aT
© get Ft ator, wae atte fearr-frear Ft tgea aT TI
aa vars, ohare aaa 2 fore arqera ate oR apa ae TT FRAT STAT ZI
fafira eftat & fore oR aaa (fre) at series ergar, pares rears ate aa
rat & fare raferfaa safer afhfaret ar dat a
1. aaa Gara TFeTT
2.0 ART aaa Ga ASAT
2.1.2 aarttht a faster (etre)

fing & fare sarge & fer vata sage & fore fasrosrar } araet Safer Sat F Teas A aT
aa tite ar array faereer serge Sar arafera | Asa are fre ist art aie -

e Faerrsrat are aro aa fre eat F eet ETT

e aatrht erat ater F fearat six frat fafa Ft aaer

e afar Ft aragaerat BT Tears FY err,

fatter iti > fee oReatrar waren (fret) Ft erhtrs agar, ars aera siz

aarfeaa rat & fee Fraferfera aatert oe feret ar sash a
1. ae a faster eter
2. aah ae fastest art aSTAT

2.1.3 wa aaeq (Ata)
‘aa aay aah STAT AAT TWAT z:
 © | Wa au afeat at oreest Sat reg rod Aare Tah at H aaqeres aT Weq Vas TT
SAH Ble TAT ALAA TET SI

othe aed fafa cadtht eat at carers & foro aft agar fener aa & fer sa at
 afeat Bl Aaae SAT! As SATIS Hat SA-STSA HHA & fers ST Sl

aa aay wT FH afer at rite wea are F OSA at Ghat Pear sera aria site War SS
aredias wr & Page Hea a geet Pear ora aTeTl

2.1.4 faareat > fer ararent org

a. Peavé dare wea Foret atat fasta arate siz Avs sraeaearqa4ne =a-
area (Got aries Hear) aT atieg St aad ZI
 [art I—ave 3(i)]

FIST BT UST» AATAT OT

35

q.

aera fates (asa) - cH Diaries aad stat 2 A arden tor
(TA)/ATTAT TTT TATA ATS (Tete) rer Te HTT HAT J Me TT aT
wea ae apa FH aqae AAA ATA TTT FLAT Sl Sa-VIea Faeroe FT
aft aprara ap fee Paw are Sf ST ay et are ES twa Fh area St ZI
aed H prereset a ariet ate feet aaa aod FH fet ft oe a
aererferr ar yotariers ST A ara aT Her ara fase (Sat sara F
ATA) TOAST TATA HY BT HAT Sl HATTA Hears F ert TaTStSst
 ST Aaa IT aH Tala US orf HY ‘Ea-erea Paras’ AAT BT AAT
Fal

qiiee fates - vst/oeter 4 aftaa’ eros ft at aehT at aad 21 aa
Fastest ar at sitet’ (a fe feet ares ar green aetarA) et aerat z aT
Tasha aT apatart ASA saeHrahH TEI H HTT HOT ATAT ST THAT Sl ATS
are F, feaftraraa ® fru gaara 4, werfterera & fore vararart & six
waste at aqdart aot & few aed wa a, Faria, aaraha vast
(waar) ore BAT SETI Wan/wetat are WS Paso & arr waarg/ferfat
mere erat area frac waar ate Was ere FH orrPer er se

Taster deat a aaa feet aot AH aria ae
vaodtat % fro ates Perot ar fracr qa ana 21 wreae/afeers fares
aot F wae qotarfers freee ar arte oot A anftare at areased aT
rarer Sat AAT ora = att ae ca thle % ata ates fast &
fanned at aad ar ast ae Star V1 aah ale sre aie Hot F cada Peers Ss
a ag afeaan ore vavodiat t ates Peres saa ar ort eh Ta ATAaTt
H poet F cada Peern St aa SA TET wT A aaa Tera Veda HoT
Fan

Taste aT aera seat aearat H ares BTS Fastest afeenay 3 water
H astra St aa 21 (fre at weft ord 5.1.6 xi ater)

 att ofiieg ae! eros & ates 2 fH a aeefifasrost arr eearathea
att varcdtat a wera seat wea are oft eerahta ara Ft aT
wet Fl atta serfifados & are at veert arr war eeaaha
TAS aT He Sra afew eras Ta ar Heart se HAT HT ATT ST

aa att ft atte fastest at ara ator rar @ at & fearé F aoa atrara F
aad 1 cart sah cara Het sat & ST arses Fao F ZI

Wrtiva, ftvivae ate Auave Ft art ert at Ft fies att rat cat anew
oT fe sete wieefet & fee arate six feu ae arat scare & fara fa
ae Zl

saeren Pref oft eo Fare ot Rear ar ars oat sega Hea F Ue Paereat
HATA Ae / AT aaa / ATS FT ATA TE MT STAT

2.2 Fa Hea she VARTA STAT TIT
36 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

Waa, Gard AAT sie Ys-saeriaaraertan Rare dare wet fore aT wae ates wat
HoT BAT Hea 21 aera Aa afta wet sit areas UHa Her hh fers aqarfed Het ax Avs
are afar ere & ae oe araret ohare Ft eat arate aft Hecayeh ZI

Tae ATT ATT AT aaa F Paferaa veqat er efter Pear sear

i art fred

i, areuerft arardet & aeqare ae Set TAT

ii, | prPaT ate ate - arf fe fet ster

iv. op atfecht attr

v.  areraet siz Parat-afreret where

vi. Tae AST

vi, aegitBrtratirrat ares
2.2.1 arnt & Pagar atx gRorrat F fears & ere varare Sas EIT
ane wast Hea A aafere art & fer wayathe as SARIS VATA AT WH aT are ares
warrerrerat 2 aTeT HU) WHA BT areet St aT Ale we Fer aert-steT Feat F dare Ft ST
wat Germ Pearé At aot aragaeparat ar orrfrer aa a fre wee SF Saar aera sal FH HAT z

ay eae ore Faforce warren aT HS ATTA ate SeaT sao Rares cast H aaa Here arate fear-
fra arr area

art are Fay HT WaT Terai BT ATTA ATT TT TATA A TAT STAT ATAeTI
aft aon faite feor-Raat = wo F feo ort aren wears Aer Tara *& rae FT
ards ota aa afew

face araet F ctr ded fare & fers sagen are at are Peeafrerraverqserest dears Ft St
SISA VARTA at IT aera are Fae at aeons At ear ST AAT ZI

Set wet At Ua ates Gerd F vstedie gre caer Te TT WHT HAT Be ae AH VATA A OST HT
fagoor fear strat & aT Ua saat BT WHT HAT, ALT TAT Ses WaT TH Tea A aafae
armored aa eqrave # varotte a ore faeqa ferfea shear ert arfec wha F fates wo Ft
Safer carat & aaa A fee onfer Pear sar @, TT BY Weer ea, Aaa area ale * fers
faa Par aes aret ATS & are F Shore wa a era feat ra aTfeT

2.3 sage Sereeray, ot ts un, areata, sates ate soae: apelens-waredtedd At Agarge We
art

2.4 TTA WaT Tet (TATA)

za chia & oetarfere seeat Fa we Roe dare aes & Fre yore arate sfearr et ergata & fore
 Teast aoa BY Meat wear 21 avast feafe ae arf Ft at gern sit aaa aha Aare ae
areht aftraco/ aroat & ore featé dare ees et aro wag At Rae at rast are ae ae aT
aqaat & gare Pau oT aT SI

SEE BT aet Tas FH few adat AOA TS TAT vara Toferar att arfew sr Asa & ferw
a ach 31 FTA, arsvast 9001 Ayer Heer ae avarita err areul Fat ze aftart wet z
fe aed areuerat 9001 warfire at, eITawa F arsvaat 9001 Ft araeaHarat atx eft FT afore
araeanarat ot cara Fear sat afew
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA 37

yaar werastararat HT Aare at art @ Pe ae aa ATS fore Pra vast Toreft aria HY sic
aa aaa ve fore Prerferfera rad Z;

© Tectt are at er 8 art aes Ht Hep Far art

© ae met Ht aepht a1 aera Fra S “EA set HCA g ae HT TE ST GH FEM el”

© worreft at site aaa FT Sear site aries Fasre ox Prstcar HH art &

© BATT Tae ATT He HT Aarar Pera sire Hreret TH Hae Ferehat STAT

eo ae ara faa wet Fae Pred SI

 © HTT HT ea HH SIT | Se THAT BHAT act SI

© art Ft aac aie as At aS H Gare Sa BI

waTdtsht cis ft faire aracrparat eT carat F cad eu FquAE asus 9001 ae aranfta sar
arfem rar cart we fH afe are ATot Test A averse 9001 warfira & at a1 a a4 six FH10
feor-freart oz arareaa: fears fear war & (Brecht ata At or aad Bi ca ae aa fera = PH Taos
fafors at aata fi4 a ato & fro aertoorett garft aria ate ees wore & ST Sa arfew raat
at ae @ fh ae oft ar weer, sears Peer, veers after arfe & ara F art TAT

ane Pret cot Ft qearet art eet Ft coreft ararta shearer A set Ft we 2, aT wefea, oar
weifera atx after grat & at sa aréuaet 9001 Ft aragaearait A eae ar aR Ra wera are
arest FOS aot Terastarar Ft aersa A aed Sf Pq wacs Sst arora Ft aragarHarsil BT TT BLA
a fer Se ee eae ee aT aT ase SS et HT afew tear fern wig Serr athe
fener Fh we wah worrett at art set are ea HT HET AT HA HATA S A Ae MSA TATA VW
 STAT Tera eara HT Aaa ta A SS Te Wet cartes Hea eT TT TS eet AT HI

aqua eater vere wore aren aa Sta F

© aa seer Tore Perr

© erecta

 © aretroreftat aratiead aeat & fere art Reevsaiaara/ oreq/ ota aPrat
wae frat ae daeft fear freq

Tora ate wa a a Pafefad a fears wer & fore Pathe eh:

Tot Tae ae sat & fre Sa St aa Serht Tort ieen Freer F aera Fer
frafta qare ate aaa watset araeraarat fore vitae areata at
aeq Pattta aed atx ater aah fer era Toes BATT

ated & Atae ware Pear ST ah se AAT ST TI

So Oren Ft date ae east

age ate Part aera gat earerst - a shhh vars Ft yar aie soearter afed frathta
equaa & fare rater, Sarees ake Terazar & fore wha Pettt

e  FITAUa ar ware feared ate fareaara h few Saearhica Pathe grat z
a. afar efearr six sitfen arena ara ar Seqaret ere ze

To yard meq hnert & foro sorreft Prather ate frarfeaa art &

a A a4
38 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

a

sifen seers ofa cari At art f St aroat & et art =

red UAT H fee St Tas are Gert AT Teas Slat S ale IOV F AME HEA
fora Saree Sage oe ew are eI

waa aaa aaelt wort Pattie atx fares Ft ort &

aoe dares at airtel re arrears Soreerax attra, sree ett ware err

 Prather aqrave  aqare arasaaarat ar ger aed  & fee ofearat st aratiead six
Fria eer Ft atarar aeatt

wefan Gat % Pear & Prarie & fare artradt fev:
aearasit az Pears Ft afore wa a Tear

ST Het A Test THAT ASH HT AGATE

aaarat We feretaor

MALTA ATLAS TATA HY THTAT A Ses ATTA HAT

a

Al

sl

4

a

A

ofrecer site yatert
sears aera Garter Ft ta Saeteera ahferet HAT
wet fert aaa ar wpe, Arar ate Titre TAT TATA TTS seas ar eT
ar Roe eater at ee se Phar ett Re
a. orfret fasrostt ar, St conti feed (tered) site sara anita Yeates Ts AAT
aq dae Ft re yeti Ratet ar yearns sire yore afafera AT

7.  oaraite ate aredt aat afta arate axe fone ger wher aa aeaaqena
(weet) /sreretatt FY are a fore steer Breas

a. aferar at Sad eu vader ater ate gare At 7S rary Reatet Ft yoraar ae Raa
weara & Gtsah ated Het Bl Sora STAT TAT Aaa ATA HATS,

TAATSETAT Te caret BA fre Ht TE arkars - fra & fore aria fret:

wm. BOTT ae Ft aA are areas At Gears ee & fers wate aaa arate rar water
aa aredt char wetert a wettest ar Fereporot

tat artareat & fee eters sare gar sea sarqe At Tea
arate & far aaa ste aa sararacea athe acar

at ort areft Hreares Hr TT Stat ast TAT

At 1S Garey Beare At arasfterar Ft aatear

afe sagan at a shea, saat car aa equa Ft aeitert

FATE & ard-aa @ Safer cers, fastest gar seq oafeat At aera weet - ar fers erat
fren:

 4ag4 a a

4 4 4 A @
[art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

39

POAT a vars fara * fore aragaen orp ar Pater sie ses SIT FATT
@ Wreath UAVS al Vala Hea aret ters, Fagot Tat ea oafepal, ae F Sa SIS ST
aT Sh Ue St, H fore ara Area (fore aes BAe stort) Frater

7. aarfaa faeroatt & oftarcor & cee Sas are Peo ae rat ar Aa

a. force at cred & fer "tear AT ord" Gare wear, rad sas are art foro feat
dare Hert aT Z,

Swed ® few fastest arc Pau ae art ferret BT ART BAT,

a. war ft anal, ara aa ater eer fare Set artare ae aire few au erat Ft
waractterat a Yeates BAT

BAA TAT wT A Sage aa Tea

wafer Ser HT ATS BT ATT

UR rT at aT arent HT Bh ere orate’ Stet afar are aera A was Pee ae aah ware

STEN HT HAT HOTTITT AH Stay WHA Hea AT fara H afehea one sat arfee:

a. feorereft cera aft sear site carat a Ser aT HA Fh fer ATA aaa & ere eet Ft
feafe & are F oreraret ort wer fer yaar sa are eae TORT WaT THAT ate
aradat rene FT Fart ATI

aq. arte arraret oe rea & fore aiferste fazer feet ster At Saream

7. aT At Ty are Gaerr ator artes BT TTT HF wT a fafAfee wear sik
Seat SATSAT FLAT

fete ster ar fea, aes sit STAT -

fects ster ft srarftrnar, faerafterar, sage ate oreifitera ws steht spaarfae fare ar arene
Ql fecteen ster ar soart srearfe ster & ee & foro feat sro ite Peet oft of feats F sear
saan wearer ster vftearca eo Ft aed Pear sea gat oie A Pe oars oer Set
afer:

a

feces ster ar were aa feat TT
aera fade ster ar TST Yaa eras araeaHaet  apeT PAT STAT FI
fader ster atat ate srt faearertirar ait ary aftfert ATI
ETT TL AT aT ara ST HLT AAT aTeT HTT facta ster Ft farfeateT AAT
ZS. ster ft aferaar afafera Hear (stare tee rear BT STS HA)
feds Stet ar Saat aed F ate ar aed Sar UH Tea HTT ZI
Aree S ore TAT, Terral site Aaratt ar aay
Wor aret F Wa At Te ohare, searat six Fara & few aragars Pear ary Hea & few gore
cat FATT
 Aqae Ft Prafetea worst & fora seer erat arfeu:

a A 44
40 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

a. Sa oat ar afarite sor we area ar wert frat sam
b. HPT Bl areca wea & fore after Ft array HT AT TAT
c.  -arseardt are ® fare Prater ate ort Gare HAT
dd. argeaté Pau ae erat At era aft fara Her fer sore STA aret Hat Ft SEAT AAT
e. uaftarfta eqrava & aqare arsed Ft we Sarat At waar oe after, Foret six
Fern
yaar ster fore sateen art — Praferfaa & fare ofearatt ar sete star arfeu:

 w. Aas HC ST Aas THAT Seer H ATEN > fore ara HTT ar AAT Ae ae HLA
fore Peeth wearerorrer er SerhT erra & fore aera ATI

GT. Waar aT a Sey are SAT SH Terr Teraearar ASA areT Few oy art HAT Ft
Tea FCAT

TCA A TANT TH AT HT ATS, ALAM sre TLS
a. wreaften ster tare pret Ft Ch are eat Te TAT AST YOTAT APTA
E. FAAS STeT AVS HUT VT VST aA ST TT TAT STA et Pants FI Pre
Tres Tavares siz ferearad- Praferfaa % fore wfeareit ar sert|@ Brat areT
arent At aaa Ft sa ea oe Pret eat Brera Sart ect sit ater TF Si
foreerarat Saar Te areeat BT PTT ATI
forarrat at fiat BEAT
Pra aaa afta ser Sarva ate Frere (orferare ate Brewers afea)i
forarrat ar ahrere Taal
ae Ae AAT HTT FH HTAteaAT BT SATA PATI
25 yen (foro, eat Storr she oF aHreraTarera Rave Ft Yaa

Se CHT BT Uh ASAT Seat, TAs SSA are Tare At we Rare Ft yoreray ar ae HAT,
qare eat Aaa H Sera wafer sar Se ah Pearé Ft yore at Sl Heats Ass F caret
Feacor Ft oar, Stet Ft ora, Stet ar faaqaer sitz area arf ZI

2.6 AISA WitasaT

aa chin ar seem eaetita yaar att wart Ara Gare He Tet aencort Aro AY Tea BAT
@, fared Sar F arrest Geter (sftenz), yt Aarerav/aarerar Peat dare Het arTeT ae ast sre SAT
 wa aera oa afteneort & earren Rare & fore ofan Mt Site Ht Sear Sars TET WaT S Se ATTA
WTA APARATO ST ATTA Mt ATA eared Hh ATTA HF ATS ST ATTA ATT HT HT
ff cara F Tar oat & (APS ATT 6 FA)I

4 a a Ad 3S

3.0 ATTA AH
a ara F arena att aren fore years ofa site ta ohare oer z:
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

41

wee ATA (ASU): asa, aaa AST FY etaaT ar areerd Pea ara & ae SAH Tae
ATeqaT Tarrfear Sat St Te Bea AT AAT I, WH aaah ATom BT 18 AT ae
Fare geared i ord aemefte 3 at fer arerat at ort SI

frorertt Gear (WaU):7e ATH ae Vasls BT aH Her Fh fers V1 soar Yar Sees we Prather
apear & fe arerar AT orat & arqarerst are Hrl-Poaras eet Se TH TT SM Zl ASU H 18 ASIA ATT
wa eat STAT STAT SI
WA: ATTA (BRU): ae A Racay’ ata Hr areas Hed eT welts are arewar Ft srafear ahs
ore fatac Wore ae ae fear svat 21 SPs, Ste ar sifaa seem sare ear F Gare Ft oo St Gat
aermvsearite Pear|et At ora F Aare HAT B, ae: See fore A ws Ato a-e aeT F WaT aar
Tau y ava ag TT SI
oise wear a te at ger ata oe oa feu ae qaret ae at Ba eu oe aoa & few
ararert At ot cet afeaT   aATe Ae TAT Iz ATS HT Yeates Pa Sa ZI
4.0 serra shar
aTeu, WaT ait aren *& fere gearaa oie F dias ware otra z:

e Aetet Heated whraT

aq. Bratera Heat Thar

a. fora wirat
4.1 arated Baie via

aeu, Tau, au sa aqaifed fasroat Rreett area ats fear @, at aera & foro aries & faeax
a ost oqeatet Oo Ofer
aaaTsewww.http://nabet.qci.org.in/ 4 steaats Fear ST AAT Zl

amercat Bl AeareS TA S Pee ATA AST GATS HASTA HEAT ST Teel ATA HA aT aaah
Het Fl SS TE TTA & fer ea-Peathor yar wea SET Pe AT aaa TAT Her fora dare S aie
war waodtdhearest & fore dare 21 east Wee aay A aga sat ent Rrra araeH AST
(THN/ATIAT WA AATSHI ATS (Teta) ste WastSsh VAT al ATA SAT Alaaa Hat Age wiA|S H
sar few ort Sivas gre ceca At are att AY aragamar ert At feafa F seeht ora
vara ar ot art SI

vaw > fu arated WaT ay at oa & fa Ae Geet arate are fee erates Weare At ae
are 16 Fala Oe Sra Te TAT Par aT area set vere, are aaa BT ATT safe Ft sara FT
dra wala Feet sate areu ® feo arate years Ft adhe & are 34 we Oe ett ae veqa Prat
wat are

waved} arated vieat ata-areat @ at ata-areat aaa HT few aaaré oA are aft
apftars / wart Saerse Te Tee H ahh

araaat aT yates 3 aot H Pear sar z -

wor |- waa ara gre araaa At Goer At att

vaca srt veda aaet ast ware & Et sa arfeu sie sa Shite H aaaa Va (AT, TAT,
an) Ft ata at & sfeafea ast aerrh cea arr aT STA TART

42 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

waudtedt arava ats ta & Pe ahs

(%) aaat aT THT F TTS,

(@) Tega Sree Baa WHAT FS site

(71) areteet arafera thre & are ear wat

afe are artes avafiayasrest, rarer araeat anfe ater FEA ae A ae &, TH Tavs
ahaa sratearat & are F ravoetat at Pre HAT Sl ATATAAT HT PATA ST ATA WE Basa TT
 Wa: areas FT ort 21 ter arate & fore weedeat arava cath ara & fore erat feca first a
aa WS qeateanal (APT Fa) FH fore aaa FT aT Tray Sl Vata ar aar|S St art fH
MAST AA A Tet aaa at wT aaa TET TT HE

aT I - Temas At Tah aetAT

aafaea aati F forest aaa Tat art Gear eal waesdisst at vega feu ae arated  aearaait At
corde after eet 21 cee arsat yeahs ar al a yeatHarHatat ar ata sat Zl WaT
yearerHat (fz) wrest sh cere arr wats sor I Peas eT HT HAT Sl Hata Feats (ATT
ea) & foro fu usp ae-qeateanal (atv) ea A orf sta V1 ale saa ofa fasta Ar seat
Saran %, at wach SA oie at Sor wa fore ate afeee Aor Taree He aH 21 Edis aa
Weared & are Hie aesrqera (Uae) ate/ar aaereet (Aaa.) Tat Sat HT Sita He THAT F Tet
aaa aera Ft araeanarat BT Yet wet Hay Sl Vanesa are wast aie aactreth are
THAI TSH Fa HT Sth aaa Ft at Ft rears arate waters yeaa Par Sa SI

OT IN - Brats Hea

sad wa arden & Prafertad we tect ar years oer 2:

phat a ora ale ars-Prerre

aq. aadcaan, fhe un, wate atredar (Waserg) Ae SSAA (WASEPA)I

Stet At srarftreran afr fert wert 2 fare fies ars ate Ta Tera TorTefh

a. Waray veer Toe

S. Yaerr ares, Ga ATT ste WF Saaertav/eraertar Rearé ster Ft Tora

a. rears yeatea/aitaraar

B Arevar At at ae aq Pew Te Aare (WaT aie are & fer)

 yeatet wha Ter ST a set aranhta ate Sevarory AT ph Sl TIAA WTA HLA FH Ae, UH

wate & aera At orat er et & area Hea AT Salts At ort Sl aaa Frater Ft fee F ware az
Tra art ofa wits HT AIT Hees Fa STAT eI

art ae oz, arateaa qeatees & fore veioetet ar 10 fea ye aaa St ore Bi aah, wauteat
arataaeret Fe at HY TTT at eet aT feat Ta @, ale sa aaa Stew AAA
4.2 frota att Ft whrar

arate Feared what ae sta ae tie ate ate (ar ate) are we aa Rare Aare Ft ore F az
amt i artaré *& foro waudtiéat afaraa ar ast ort 31 afar fare & feo fiw Ree 21
wauatedt arava fare At gota ft ara Hea FH are, Vato eater Hate A aragaeHay ST IT

A
[art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

43

erstecm/afar arrears wa HAT Sl Tera waestest ahearaa are Aaa aera aaa
aaet aera oe aatter atx fete & feo veqa Pear wren 21 sae are afar aoe vans /
 uauatétaaaree http://nabet.qci.org.in/ Te areas Frat Sar Sl ATT HIATT ears At tT
ordre & vars at St SI

4.3 aded at Arta wiharat & fore are Sta

aaa, Tears ste aera Thararet BT get Hea Patera az Pe Hea z:

m. wage seas ATT ACT | ST I eat He fre wad et F GA oars we HAT aT
uadiva/aactrret At Hears BT Tz HAT, SAT PH aTST, TaTae arvaraaat * % few aT SI
a, Tava at aru & fare waedtest arer are 10 & Brea a atta aaa sh & tax wat/oear

Bre Saas Br TAT Ie Tedder ores Aer Be fre wet a ratte & Ps es a es aT
frac seqa Fe

a, wametedt arr ae | fer 15 fea & afta ate aor Il fer 1 wes tae Gera Pear STAT

sate tenets, vacate ara GA arrears sega Her 3 ASA Bh fhe WaT are ATTA

Ward Ber At hear BY TT eA * fore aah ware aw ara SI

4.4 aera aia & feat

Aaa Thapar a er ead sa ware ze:

ae. Werte aaa art qeatedt site cea oipareit ar aerate Ge ae few oe Ft
feafe # ofora epfters/waredteht aaaree oe utes Pear sat & atte waroetat ar ft arent
& aad fear sat 21

@.  awgnfta adt - afe vatveditet aratea years F 40% ata ore Het A fant tear Z aT
area At eT aaa BT TT Tet HLA F, TT aratat aqarfed ae Sf ate ATTA Tara AT
At srt 21

7 Cemey - afe ars wate Areca Ft ovat HT GT aT HAT SAT WaT aya are & fers |
MAST TAT WT Teqa Tet HAT @, TT ares 15 fea F Tar Hea} few wa aeqenres fea STAT
al afe 15 feat & are oft got erage sega set Pear ovat @, at 15 fea ar site aaa Be ET
afea atfee fear ara 21
aifan arfea & are ot aqurea a feo ore At feata F welt ar At we arerar freed ae at
ordt @ ite Sear are sear rat warrearet AT TT & eer fear sat Vi ale ae area & FH SAA
* Ted sa ae fhe a fare Pear ore araeay Ele ary wey aT Aaa TAT HAT EMT
Zaha ATET ATS Tare aT FATS Beata Fear Gaz

a. wy aan - afe Fre wat ae Marae Tega Hea @ rad atfera faacor vet fear war &
ar ae aaa areas (fe) site caefht ar fasrosr (Awe), FQTATA, Tartare feareor
arfe & few ana aeahtat dae F eft Fh aragaerarat at yet at HAT SZ, AT Ba ‘ATT
area’ At oat F car sat 21 wae ss araaa Hore we HT wat ar gaa Hea ZI ale
ale araed areas fare Z, dt aet araeaareit Br GT Hea BH Aa Sa IT at Breas Ft art
al
4 4 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

4.5 vette verasfararatt er vat
aan ae Vat ATTAT Tae He Te afsecoraroat BT eft eet aT a! A ATTA at Tt
Ql oa hla & cae faaroat ar aqared At ee ara’ watt A fear ara ZI
afe aqatied aot Ferrata 50% F HA ath Z, TT, TA UH Barat aT Pear Sa F
ae sae aquired At fearfe ar aft @ A aaa ot aha SAO |@ fast at get et sera
Prat rat  afe —
a. ae che F Seated aqara arasaparat BT YT Hear VTA: Ada F Geet A Gears FT
at BT EX HAT FI
GVA AAAI HaHa F 60% AT afer TTA ITA FLAT ZI
1, sae fag waite SFT GT He Ie Patna are Saat & fore arate ake ATeTAT
afate ar state fret
5.0 FARA TIT
aera aaa at don a afore aaeitars soared st Faaree ae Oat don eH AeA AAT aes
feu ora & fret aafera areet oe at at ort Si Areca PAS are aqaien FT adhe & wey ATT
tex vardtédiva ar ue aioe va Sor oat trad Aft afea aiea aat, Aoi afer
aqatfed fasrosit, aerat site waet aie aactret Ft faeqa svat, afe arg a, wr sere aa 21
vavdtédtue ar aera wart oe ath waht ate aac HT AAT Oe TT aT STAT FI
5.1 ARTA FATT TEA
yaa ate aera aa weed areft afte At arerat aaeiteré— waodtedt alte Ft
aragaparatt arrest AT ort a rerefts V1 ses Praferfers ofa zg eg sa oH ae seat 2:
%. AR Aeu, Wau, au >} adie sie aaa & fore Garr aie ares artars afea
udtat & agra Agere F refers worferatsrorrettat ar arateaat
aq, udtare at act can At fear dare aed rarer’ dare Het & fore siearfea far sat
@, fred oat & are at gor eet & fore Sao Fa sas arash oT are aeT
worefrat ar face ST
a. fase ar aaa oe oftearcs - afe are aqatfed He ar Fivs uetat Ft ars Sar Z, GT sa
uae fataface aaa A ce ort AT araeaHaT ZI
a. aRadat ft aan - area F yore, wore, warren siz aes afaereit & aafara ars at
afada art ft fearte A wee wets & hae seh ara CaS et St ret Sct 21
S. wearas Ft Prateat & arepare wares Bt gar vate Ars ar TATA
a. weltat arr dare Ft ws Pere ore F celta arr HT atte Etvars & arat ar Geta Het
eu wae aa wa fear ATAT Zl Fe HI Sah ST BETH eeaathea Sta ATT ae AST
aéat are ofa serrata sat arfer
a. cae at feate ft arrardt wa ates aragaean 2, cafe ort ate write Steive at art

qe Het & cet aie fetes ster fafaarear wa a arectas wears & feo orafe ster
aren ft safer chorea aaa sate a foro carer ar ahr Pau art Ft Sate 21
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

45

a. afar & ofte astt ifive siz Avice car eat F aeeat aT ere oe we fies aT
cadt arfen aie sad ater aett area wacdtédtoes  qearerhat waters Weare 7
 Se SAAT AAT HT Te S1 FSerost arr waar *& STH aA aes aera BA PH soar
At Raréatz at Ft oofeeeeea, ara satel sears ahs Tae ara ZI

a. wdtat ar are 5.3 F sfeafaa aratarareat & aedt & aaa anew ake ae afafera at
ae fe at vara Ft we aera feed vet At TE ZI

a. ude at Praferted aftere cad att (atre ar are eile F)

 i ORT Ft oer atari ar safeate cieexi

ii. Teuecrar ener ater Aen oF Here Peta aT (es gse A wees

yl

ii, fara oReatorrsit > fern feu we aa} ea 4, ates fastest Ah afta ar sar

iv. aatag facroat ft ratte aro gar sa aoa Ft tear re ars F Has eI

Vv. WANT ereaT ars site FUT Haters A aaa ast cera
5.2 ATTA F ae That

af, wa cerasfarat aot Ft aera araqaifed facrost ox arate @, aa: afe wa aqatied fasrosr
Wor FH BIS Fa Sate UH eA FH fae Ato Ft aragaHarat * eae TAA AT VEAL Z
at weet arr sat aaa waesdist et fear ara arfew wach arrest Yeates & Shera aT aT
Wea ve aeeit year aT Veer BOT AAT ae odes BT TeaTa HA A aH UH Tr
aera @, Bre aeficar & Sar sa ate sae TR eeT Wears te aft St aa ZI

Pret ft aaa gears & few we ae sree ar ett ar Ares we F yeaa Pear at aa SI TATA,

Test F at yeates Pou ae ate aqaried vet feo ae oft & arr F 3 welt H tare Hare St ST
apt a ex Het hh ferme aeaH TAT ET Tearharst Fa ST THAT SI

5.3 wera ar Pista farcedteco/ Paar

waved yearaa Ft ora & stereo sas are Peet At aera afer arearet oe WH area AT Area

at frefea ar freed ar facies ae aera &, feed 7 rafertaa om aia set 2:

co wauatsdine ft sears aaelt arasaparat Ae oat AT AAA AT SOTA TAT ATS BAIT
sah tora F aftte qeat & fer

a, afe are aqaifea faerorst area ais sar Zz, at Uetat at us aes hae wach at
sekt aaa et aah ate are at aera & tax wae itera qa es HAT aah SMT

TT. arrest Far aerated vediaat F Fear ar are HT Tee PATI

a. waTdtsat & aera rea, waves & areca va at ettearsyeaastedt ae ar art
STANT

. wauatsdive a arated & far oats aaa erat F aad aay
7. Peet oft as art (afrart apart) oRadat ate feat eat ht ara BaF feerar
46 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

3. udtatarr art seqdtecvarrsta F wavstedt ary ereqt oaert aca ahs ait
Fel, THe Tat BY ITA site/ar AST TST ATH TTT Wea BAT, AAT TAM,
feats ar ster Frearaen, searast ar arate Sorat ore ZI

T. warastarar aaah & fore arare afar Ar See
a. WATS are SAP AT TS BTS AKT oT BT THAT TAT Zl
Peaaficedtecofaarest ar rote waves st areca afate arer fear Sra 21
za araet oe atfae Poteet & fore wee eater aT ST ae S Se ATeTaT ahaa AY sega Pear oT
aha zl
5.4 Fearare/Hre ara & fore areas
 Tat AIAT TH EAT SA STAT HTS HATA A Peet wayceat at UH ae awh few sare ait
Peat ot apa & rear fora asfiz ercare  arare ae ares aaa arr Pear Se WA Wane rar
fader vate aah & ware A UA: alaea He aa aaa BH ATT Ao & sat A fra aT TH
amare at aera Pear sear frat ae fear war eh fH afe sea art Ft qacrafe art & at aaa
aed ar anreft Pret ft cacdtest area Shite F arr at & fro arora afta He Par se AST
afearr wae eroat (fetes tar Frese) * fee off ary eT
5.5 wrerhrar
vaca arr wasted at sega avt were At gaa, sera gar Reaveh ar ST arrest aT
aera & fer waves, qearereat, Areva site gadtth afafaat & aeeat art Pear area sat
Rae WaT, AIST ATT aT setter arts wafer ae aaeat & ara aft ax Pear
sre afe vetoes gaat at ares cea area @ at sae fore sre sat eu wacdtest Ft
waa afra wea arfeul sa dae F sagen Pore at fore waves ar afeenre er watt
arrra sirens ar aes a fore wate & eg Sra artars Hey ar aferare ft qefera aa Zl
water at any fate arqen wate sraer cast AT ater S aT seh arent arer at es at aaa Ft
arian Ft qzert At oT al et Sraeareit H Arete afaafa HF dhe ae wrt He we aah azar
aroat wr fer Fear St aa ZI

6.0 ferarra rarer tat

varra/cttance Ft ferarrat Fare & fare Ste & ateata at worefrat Saree F-

(*) fata AY afer
(a) attr

6.1 frofat ft after

afe variant warts are fore ae frett ot ote Ft aften/qateare arear & aT a see ere ara

TIA TAT TSET HT AT AIT

frrafafad sfar any 2:

(m)  wauetedt are warretat & ora arrest ret Ar aretha Bh wee area ae ast ea STAT 21
(@)   wacta F fataece foraraat (fatafece waht site al) ar secre Stat arfew aie cearasit
Tar Faw ert arfeul

(7) -Saravaey aq oe Fare vet Pear ST
[art I—ave 3(i)]

FIST BT UST» AATAT OT

47

6.2 atte

wirarere Aaa ae Hae Aferafeat ox At fare far sea She A seat areetT

arava a Pret at cee oe TA: arenes fore fare vet Pear seat
ve afters’ oe aareftar Genta Wearrst aa e At sown A ferare ear sar 21
tat seat Ft aria & vsvodtat art ara feat sat 21

TTT HA aes VaTa/vstaioe ate are at aera ea aS vet he GAA AAT AAT Ta
aT

uedt & frorat ade A safer trea ar afere Pear ara @ ste ageters Saaree Wz Tee

FRAT STAT SI

vat/odtiat ater Fota a wares a ert oe ater Be AAT
‘after # fafafece qe fire acftereff Great wer ter @, saga omer ett afew ate aes TET
aie arte & ferocite oft orrfrer ata arfeui afta sega aca aaa Praferfere paar ft ort art —

w. a.

 ater F vega | ater Fo vege | after att F yeqd | aa ae a av
fate az aaah SET afafe ar) afafon au qe aaTh-

fro aeaTast

Vv

7.0 AAaTe

wauatedt are acer Ft qemera H acstedt ats are die aeeiia after PA aT
Toa Brat wavdtedt are a ue ait ween aa we fag foros ofa sr

wearer ati Pate ar aqaran, sere, Tarstedt ars are far ora 21

afar & wre cearast wae aPrareaat are anita afafe a aeeat et vega fra
STAT Zl

afafe ara arare wfrar- afatea aaare Ft atta fora aed & fires sate F retest
afraraa are aftaretf at ara Pear sat 21 aaa H arterreff ett fore atereff
sa tora ar afagra sate ates fear smart 21 afafa atereff ar ate wardtedt
afraraa aT ara vet can & feroaere aaa adh a1 afafe sat celta art aa
faeae frare-faast & earg roar fore Sct 21

aria afate foie ft gaat wavehisdt arava art aiternat at at ort SI

afear

aft wefan at amare aaa ar STS A ores Hea ET Taras art afte ars A qae HAT
arerardt 21 Wat wat wea A aresa a Peat atra fcea ST ATI

7.1 ephterg site wae sat ait at STANT

a. waters a wardisét areca fare waist At aha & aar saat var fae 21
waved vearaa Paes & Sra & ere feor-frsart F ort ar aera aT ZI
48

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

vi.

 vii.

 i, wa et ater Tat Gest Asa aaTe HA Te aH HT Tera fear strat @, wavetsat
wafers frara at cearas fare & sears fore erat are A ara FT

ii, Were Reg ar saa Hat WaT es F vearita weraeff arsat art A Peat sre
@. wera Pre & sears fore feen-Pear ae

waUatset ATTA WATT We ATT Paes BT HAT SAT ATA Ara se Aha H te Ae
PRAT ST THAT SI

ward Pree ar Sea Wee ATTA ST Hh Aaa Was St HT AGATA STAT TATSTHAT 2h
qara & foro vet Feat se

wear fare ar soar te ferett oft eo A ae rar Sea St ere eto Be ATH A Fears
are F arent BT ala HAT ST

yar Pre sate vet f aa seat saa arated F frathee maer areca Teast AST
are a fear sam

areaa & feta aera ed aera Seaht aaa ae wearsast (Tat aaarita) ceaHeff Het
are ae sare & Ata vara & wach areaar Pes & Sua BT aaa ae TT rast
water aaah, Hex SS, ST ex, Tere, aries Pearé, fara ares, Taare gar fara are
ofr ZI

vauatedt war aaa rat F aftadst at ar afer cea @ aa sae Ade A coeff
areata afaa Pear seam

years reg ar saat maet Tet areat % fre z, safes ereatt & fre adh

TT. AST

a. waudtédt aoe afer a 4 gear Pee ar aha Seat AT et aT ATI

@ yar * geaam a amen afta F aa oe wavetedt areca & Pctaav/errar
Farcediercor & fer afar arepare arcane ae aad SI

7.2 Terasht Asal Set TTT T
rome aed Prafafad sarade ea S-

a. ofa, et ate faa Aaara Tah a ars eT
a. att ae art & of fear et ae ara sera ae, AST ate Sa Ba a TT TI

wT. aa & feo oes a afta ga ar fase scant ate sa dae Fore aaa TAT

srraret Ft atria FATT TSAI

a. Gad ara/a-aaries Pare dare Hea HF aT Tat F arqarfed fasrost F fasrosrar ar zt

sar

Ss. feat cece Brae art cara St aera Z, A aT
a. Wren azar seh viata feat & Peet ft cence ar cerarea eters aT HAT
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

49

gy. waved ate sere ores afer Pratt At corearce Ft wfter a wider Het at HAT
ao. waved & Peet off strate ara ofthat F yr eo & aa

ATTA F TS Vat “TST TAT SAT ATTA Fae HA Tet afew FH fore arare Sea” Ve SETA
Ra & ae Sa WAS arava Bt Tt HAT ZI

["T.4.34011/28/201 o-ariinea]
wart ware oft, aa at

feorm:- ye faa, AT USAT, AT-M, GIS 3, SI-ave (ii) , afeaat Heats aa. 1398,
aréta 26 warez, 1960 4 warisre Pao ae & ate cerca aettet afer Hearty aT.aT. A. 710 (a)
aréta 8 apex, 2014 F warfsre ew 7 aT

MINISTRY OF COAL
NOTIFICATION
New Delhi, the 29th May, 2020

G.S.R. 331(E).—In exercise of the powers conferred by section 13 of the Mines and Minerals
(Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules
further to amend the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960, namely:—

1. Short title and commencement.—(1) These rules may be called the Mineral Concession (Amendment) Rules,
2020.

 (2) Save as otherwise provided in these rules, they shall come into force on the date of their publication in the
Official Gazette.

 2. In the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960 (hereinafter referred to as the principal rules), for rule 2, the
following rule shall be substituted, namely:—

‘2. Definitions.—(1) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,—
(i) “Act” means the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957);

(ii) “block boundary” shall mean the geographical boundary of the coal or lignite block expressed by way of co-
ordinates specified in the allocation order issued under section 11A of the Act or a notification of res ervation
issued under section 17A of the Act or vesting order or allotment order issued under the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Act, 2015 (1 lof 2015) or any other instrument or order issued under any other law in force entitling a
person to carry out prospecting or mining operations;

(iii) “Form” means a form specified in Schedule I to these rules;

(iv) “geological report” means the detailed report prepared upon completion of prospecting operations in any area
containing coal or lignite comprising of all geological, geophysical, exploration, core coal or lignite analysis,
hydrological, geo-engineering and other information regarding exploration, location or proof of mineral deposits,
acquired during the prospecting operations conducted in such area and includes drilling log;

(v) “illegal mining” means any reconnaissance or prospecting or mining operation undertaken by any person or a
company in any area without holding a reconnaissance permit or a prospecting licence or as the case may be, a
mining lease as required under sub-section(1) of section 4 of the Act.

Explanation. — For the purpose of this clause,—

(a) violation of any rules, other than the rules made under section 23C of the Act, within the mining lease area by
a holder of a mining lease shall not include illegal mining;

(b) any area granted under a reconnaissance permit or a prospecting licence or a mining lease, as the case may be
shall be considered as an area held with lawful authority by the holder of such permit of licence or a lease, while
determining the extension of illegal mining;

(vi) “project proponent” shall include an allocatee of the coal block under section 11A of the Act or a Government
company or corporation in whose favour an area containing coal or lignite is reserved under section 17A of the
50 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

Act or a successful bidder or an allottee of a coal mine under the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of
2015) or any other project proponent having right under any other law in force to carry out prospecting operations
or mining operations for coal or lignite;

(vii) “railway” and “railway administration” have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Indian
Railways Act, 1890 (9 of 1890);

(viii) “Schedule” means a Schedule appended to these rules;
(x) “section” means a section of the Act.

 (2) The words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Act or in the Coal Block Allocation
Rules, 2017 made thereunder or in the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of 2015) or the rules made
thereunder shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the said Acts or the rules.”.

 3. In the principal rules, in rule 8,—

(a) for the words and figure “and Chapter IV”, the words, figures and letter “, Chapter [V and Chapter IVA” shall
be substituted; and

(b) for the words “and mining leases”, the words “, mining leases and prospecting licence-cum-mining leases”
shall be substituted.

 4. In the principal rules, after Chapter III, the following chapter shall be inserted, namely:—
“CHAPTER IIIA
Geological Reports

21A. Applicability—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in Chapter III, Chapter V and Chapter VI of these
tules, the provisions of this chapter shall apply in respect of all land containing coal or lignite.

 (2) On and from the commencement of the Mineral Concession (Amendment) Rules, 2020, conduct of prospecting
operations and preparation of geological report in respect of any area containing coal or lignite shall be governed
by the provisions of this chapter.

 21B. Prospecting operations and preparation of geological report.—(1) For conduct of prospecting operations
and preparation of geological report, a project proponent may—

(i) engage any person upon obtaining prospecting licence or prospecting licence-cum-mining lease from the
State Government;

(ii) engage an entity specified in or notified by the Central Government under the second proviso of sub-
section (1) of section 4 of the Act; or

(ili) engage any Accredited Prospecting Agency, notified under second proviso to sub-section (1) of section 4
of the Act.

 (2) Every prospecting operation shall be undertaken and geological report prepared in accordance with Indian
Standard Procedure for Coal Resource Estimation issued by the Central Geological Programming Board of
Geological Survey of India or any other standard procedure specified by the Central Government.

 (3) Every person, entity or agency conducting the prospecting operations under sub-rule (1), shall submit a report
of the work done by it during each half of financial year, stating the number of persons and machineries engaged
and disclosing the complete geological data, geophysical data and all other information collected during the period
to the Central Mine Planning and Design Institute Limited, a Government company and to the State Government
within three months from the close of the half year to which it relates.

 (4) On the completion or abandonment of prospecting operations or termination of the prospecting licence,
whichever is earlier, such person, entity or agency shall also submit a report of the work done along with all
information relevant to mineral resources acquired by it in the course of prospecting operations.

 (5) The project proponent as well as the person, entity or agency, as the case may be, referred to in sub-rule (1),
shall be responsible for the data furnished in the geological report.
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

51

21C. Accreditation system for prospecting operations and preparation of geological report.—The QCI-
NABET shall grant accreditation to Accredited Prospecting Agency for undertaking prospecting operations and
preparation of geological report in accordance with standards and procedures specified in Schedule VI of these
tules.”.

 5. In the principal rules, in rule 22,—

(i) in sub-rule (4), the portion beginning with the words “On the receipt of the application” and ending with the
words “the Central Government for its approval.” shall be omitted; and

(ii) sub-rules (4A), (4B), (5) and (6) shall be omitted.
 6. In the principal rules, for rule 22A, the following rules shall be substituted, namely: —

“22A.— Mining operations to be in accordance with mining plan— On and from the expiry of a period of nine
months from the commencement of the Mineral Concession (Amendment) Rules, 2020,—

(a) no mining operations shall be undertaken except in accordance with the mining plan, which—

(i) _ has been approved under clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 5 of the Act and in accordance with rule
22B; or

(ii) is in accordance with the system established by the State Government for preparation, certification and
monitoring of mining plan under the proviso to clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 5 of the Act and
tule 22AA:

 Provided that the mining operations shall continue to be governed by the existing mining plan approved prior to
commencement of the Mineral Concession (Amendment) Rules, 2020, until the same is modified;

(b) any modification in the existing mining plan during the operation of a mining lease shall also be done in
accordance with clause (a).

 22AA.— System to be established by the State Government for mining plan—(1) The system to be
established by the State Government under sub-clause (ii) of clause (a) of rule 22A for preparation, certification
and monitoring of mining plan shall be submitted to the Central Government for approval.

 (2) The State Government shall seek previous approval of the Central Government for any modification of the
system.

 (3) The Central Government shall dispose of, with or without modifications, the proposals received from the State
Government for approval of system referred in sub-rule (1) or modification of a system referred in sub-rule (2),
within a period of three months from the date of receipt of such proposal:

Provided that the Central Government may revoke such approval for reasons to be recorded in writing and duly
communicated to the State Government.”.

 7. In the principal rules, for rule 22B, the following rule shall be substituted, namely:—

“22B. Preparation and approval of mining plan. — (1) Every mining plan other than those covered under the
proviso to clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 5 of the Act shall be prepared and submitted for approval under
this rule, within a period of six months of the preparation of geological report:

Provided that in cases where geological report has been prepared prior to issuance of allocation order or vesting
order or allotment order or notification of reservation under section 17A of the Act, and the said geological report
is in accordance with sub-rule (2) of rule 21B, the period of six months for preparation and submission of mining
plan shall be reckoned from the date of such allocation order, vesting order, allotment order or notification, as the
case may be.

 (2) For preparation of mining plan under sub-rule (1), a project proponent may engage,—
(i) a person having the following qualifications and experience, namely: —

(a) a degree in mining engineering or a degree in opencast mining or a degree in mining machinery or a post-
graduate degree in geology granted by a university established or incorporated by or under a Central Act, a
Provincial Act or a State Act, including any institutions recognised by the University Grants Commission under
section 4 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 (3 of 1956) or any equivalent qualification granted by
any university or institution outside India and recognised by Government of India, and

(b) professional experience of five years of working in a supervisory capacity in the field of mining after obtaining
the degree; or
52 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(ii) a Mining Plan Preparing Agency accredited for preparation of mining plan by the QCI-NABET.

 (3) The QCI-NABET shall grant accreditation in accordance with standards and procedures prescribed in Schedule
VI of these rules.

 (4) Every mining plan shall be prepared,—

(i) _ on the basis of a geological report prepared in accordance with rule 21B;

(ii) in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Central Government in this regard; and
(iii) for an area within the block boundary:

Provided that the mining plan may cover an area beyond the block boundary not containing coal or lignite on a
certificate issued to that effect by the State Government and that it intends to grant mining lease for such extended
area.

 (5) The project proponent and the qualified person or the Mining Plan Preparing Agency shall be responsible,—
(i) for the data furnished in the mining plan;

(ii) that the mining plan has been prepared in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Central
Government in this regard by a person possessing the qualifications and experience specified in clause (i)
of sub-rule (2) or by a Mining Plan Preparing Agency.

 (6) The project proponent shall submit the mining plan for approval to such officer or authority as may be notified
by the Central Government, accompanied with the following, namely:—

(i) _ such non-refundable fee as may be specified by the Central Government; and

(ii) a certificate from the project proponent to the effect that the area covered in the mining plan is not
beyond the block boundary or in case the area covered under the mining plan extends beyond the block
boundary, a certificate issued by the State Government as  specified in the proviso to clause (iii) of sub-
rule (4).

 (7) Such officer or authority shall, within a period of thirty days from the date of receiving the mining plan, grant
approval or direct correction in the mining plan or pass any such order as it may deem fit:

 Provided that the aforesaid period of thirty days shall be applicable only if the mining plan is complete in all
respects and in case any modification is directed by such officer or authority after the initial submission of the
mining plan for approval, the said period shall be applicable from the date of submission of the revised mining
plan.

 (8) A project proponent aggrieved by any order made or direction under sub-rule (7) may, within thirty days of the
communication of such order or direction, apply to the Central Government for a revision of such order or
direction thereof.

 (9) On receipt of an application for revision, the Central Government shall give a hearing to the aggrieved project
proponent and may confirm, modify or set aside the order or direction within thirty days and the decision of the
Central Government in this regard shall be final.”.

 8. In the principal rules, rules 22BB and 22C shall be omitted.
 9. In the principal rules, after rule 22D, the following rules shall be inserted, namely: —

“22E. Modification of approved mining plan.—(1) Subject to provisions of sub-rule (3), in case of any
modification in the approved mining plan, the project proponent shall submit the modified mining plan in
accordance with rule 22B for approval of the officer or authority notified under sub-rule (6) of rule 22B.

(2) The modification under sub-rule (1) shall be on any of the following grounds, namely: —
(i) | change in method of mining;

(ii) for facilitating increase in sanctioned peak capacity that is in excess of one hundred and fifty per cent. of
the sanctioned rated capacity of the mine;

(ili) change in leased area;
(iv) in the interest of safe and scientific mining;
(v) conservation of minerals;

(vi) for the protection of environment;
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

53

(vii) addition of reserve by way of proving of reserve in the existing lease area;
(viii) for change in final mine closure conditions; or
(ix) such other grounds as may be determined by the Central Government:

 Provided that in case of allocated coal mines or blocks, prior approval of the nominated authority or the Central
Government shall be required for any modification in the mining plan which result in changes in the terms and
conditions or efficiency parameters specified in the agreement entered between the nominated authority or the
Central Government and the project proponent, as the case may be.

 (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1), the project proponent may carry on the following minor
changes in the approved mining plan and submit specific proposal pursuant to such changes to the Coal Controller
with a copy to the Central Government for information, namely:—

(i) change in land type within the leased area;
(ii) change in heavy earth moving machinery deployment; or
(iii) change in location of infrastructure within the leased area.

 22F. Misrepresentation.— (1) Any misrepresentation by the project proponent in the mining plan, modification
or minor change in the mining plan or any other related documents submitted to the approving officer or authority
or the Central Government or the State Government, shall constitute contravention of these rules and render such
mining plan, modification or minor change as void.”.

 10. In the principal rules, in rule 24, after sub-rule (5),the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely:—

“(6) The State Government shall examine an application for grant of mining lease and pass an order in writing for
disposal of such application.”.

 11. Amendment of rule 24A.— In the principal rules, in rule 24A, after sub-rule (1), the following sub-rule shall
be inserted, namely: —

“(2) If an application for renewal of a mining lease made within the time referred to in sub-rule (1) is not disposed
of by the State Government before the date of expiry of the lease, the period of that lease shall be deemed to have
been extended by a period of two years or till the State Government passes order thereon, whichever is earlier.”.

 12. In the principal rules, after Chapter IV, the following chapter shall be inserted, namely: —
“CHAPTER IVA

PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING PROSPECTING LICENCE-CUM-MINING LEASE OF COAL AND
LIGNITE IN RESPECT OF LAND IN WHICH THE MINERALS VEST IN THE GOVERNMENT

40A. Applicability of this Chapter: The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to the grant of prospecting
licence-cum-mining lease of coal and lignite in respect of land in which the minerals vest in the Government.

 40B. Application for prospecting licence-cum-mining lease.—(1) Upon grant of allocation order or vesting
order or allotment order, as the case may be, a successful allocatee shall make an application in Form Q for grant
of prospecting licence-cum-mining lease, along with such order and any other supporting documents before such
officer or authority as the State Government may specify:

Provided that the State Government may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, relax requirement of submission of
any of the documents specified in this sub-rule:

Provided further that a successful allocatee may engage an entity under the second proviso of sub-section (1) of
section 4 of the Act, in which case, such allocatee shall apply for grant of mining lease after preparation of
geological report in accordance with rule 21B and approval of mining plan in accordance with rule 22B and the
provisions of Chapter IV shall apply on application, grant and conditions of such mining lease.

 (2) Every application for the grant of prospecting licence-cum-mining lease shall be accompanied by,—
(a) non-refundable fee of ten thousand rupees;

(b) all documents required for grant of a prospecting licence as specified under rule 9; and

(c) the security deposit specified under rule 20.

 40C. Acknowledgement and disposal of application for prospecting licence-cum-mining lease-—(1) Receipt
of an application for grant of prospecting licence-cum-mining lease shall be duly acknowledged by the State
Government.
 54 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(2) The State Government shall execute a prospecting licence deed in Form F, within a period of ninety days from
the date of receiving of such application, complete in all respects.

 (3)The provisions of rules 14, 16, 18, 19, and 21shall apply to such prospecting licence.

 40D. Conduct of prospecting operations. — (1) Upon execution of a prospecting licence deed, the said allocatee
within the period specified in section 7 of the Act, shall undertake prospecting operations, prepare geological
report in accordance with rule 21B and submit a mining plan for approval in accordance with rule 22B.

40E. Conduct of mining operations. — (1) Upon approval of mining plan, the said allocatee shall submit a copy
of such approval to the State Government alongwith all documents required for grant of mining lease as specified
under rule 22 for execution of mining lease deed of prospecting licence-cum-mining lease:

Provided that the State Government may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, relax requirement of submission of
any the documents specified in rule 22:

Provided further that the State Government may, with previous approval of the Central Government, impose such
other conditions for conduct of mining operations in the mining lease deed, as it may deem fit.

 (2) The State Government shall execute a mining lease deed in Form K of the Schedule I, within a period of ninety
days from the date of receiving of such documents complete in all respects.

 (3) The provisions of rules 22A, 22AA, 22B, 22D, 22E, 22F, 27, 29A, 30, 32, 33, 36, 37, 37A, 38 and 40 shall
apply mutatis mutandis, to such mining lease.

 40F. Renewal of prospecting licence.—(1) An application for renewal of a prospecting licence under the
prospecting licence-cum-mining lease deed for the purpose of completing prospecting operations, shall be made
at least ninety days before the expiry of the prospecting licence and shall be accompanied by a statement
containing, -

(a) reasons for renewal;

(b) areport of the details of prospecting operations undertaken by the applicant;

(c) the details of expenditure incurred;

(d) the number of man days for which the work was undertaken; and

(e) _ the justification for the additional period required to complete the prospecting work.

 (2) Receipt of an application for renewal shall be duly acknowledged by the State Government within three days
of receipt of such application.

 (3) The application for renewal shall be accompanied by non-refundable fee of rupees one thousand per square
kilometre on a pro rata basis of the area for which the renewal of the prospecting licence is applied for.

 (4) The State Government may condone delay in submission of an application for renewal of a prospecting licence
made after the time limit specified in sub-rule (1), provided that such application has been made before the expiry
of the prospecting licence.

 (5) An application for the renewal of a prospecting licence shall be disposed of by the State Government before
the expiry of the period of prospecting licence and if application is not disposed of within that period, the license
shall be deemed to have been renewed for a period not exceeding the period for renewal of prospecting license
under sub-section (2) of section 7 of the Act, or the period for which the application is made, whichever is less.

 40G. Renewal of mining lease. — (1) An application for renewal of mining lease under the prospecting licence-
cum-mining lease shall be dealt with in accordance with rules 24A and 24B, as the case may be.”.

 13. In the principal rules, in rule 45, for clause (ia), the following clause shall be substituted, namely: —

“(ia) mining operations shall be undertaken in accordance with the mining plan, prepared and approved under rule
22B and modified under rule 22E;”.

 14. In the principal rules, rule 52 shall be omitted.
 15. In the principal rules, after Chapter X, the following chapter shall be inserted, namely: —
“CHAPTER XI
Penalty

76. Penalty Any contravention of the provisions of these rules shall be punishable in accordance with the
provisions of sub-section (2) of section 21 of the Act.”.

 16. In the principal rules, in Schedule I, after Form P, the following form shall be inserted, namely: —
[art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

55

“Form Q
MODEL FORM
APPLICATION FOR GRANT OF PROSPECTING LICENCE-CUM-MINING LEASE
 [See rule 40A]

(To be submitted in triplicate)

 Through....

Sir,

Toe , the authorized signatory of .......... (name of successful allocatee company or corporation) request that
a prospecting licence-cum-mining lease under the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960 be granted to .......... (name

of successful allocatee company or corporation).

 2.A sum often thousand rupees in accordance with Rule 40Aof the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960 has been

deposited.

 3.The required particulars are given below:—

i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
(v)

(vi)

(vii)
(viii)
(ix)
(x)

(xi)

(xii)

 Name of the applicant with complete address.

 Is the applicant a private company, public company or corporation?

 An attested copy of the certificate of registration of the company or corporation shall be enclosed.
 Nature of business of applicant.

 Number and date of th e valid clearance certificate of payment of mining dues(copy enclosed) or
affidavit when not holding any mining lease.

 If on the date of application the applicant does not hold a prospecting licence, it should be stated
whether an affidavit to this effect has been furnished to the satisfaction of the State Government.

 Mineral or minerals which the applicant intends to prospect and mine.
 Period of prospecting licence stage for which the prospecting licence-cum-mining lease is required
Extent of the area the applicant wants to prospect.

 Details of the area in respect of which prospecting licence-cum-mining lease is required. (District,
Taluq, Village, Khasra No., Plot No., Area, etc.)

(a) Does the applicant have surface rights over the area for which he requires a prospecting licence?

(b) If not, has he obtained the consent of the owner, and the occupier of the land for undertaking
prospecting operations. If so, the consent of the owner and the occupier obtained in writing be filed.

 Brief description of the area with particular reference to the following:
(a) the situation of the area in respect to natural features such as streams etc.

(b) in the case of village, areas, the name of the village and if only a part of the village is applied for, the
khasra number, the area in hectares of each field or part thereof applied for.

 N.B. - The areas shall cover whole or recognised part survey numbers.

 (c) In the case of forest areas, the name of the working circle, the range and the felling series.
 56 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(d) For areas where no forest maps or cadestral maps are available, a sketch plan should be submitted on scale
showing the area applied for together with boundary, if any, of any other existing mining lease or
prospecting licence area if the area applied for has any common point or line with the boundaries of
existing prospecting licence or mining lease areas.

 (xiii) The areas applied for should be marked on plans as detailed below:

(a) In case a cadestral map of the area is available, the area on this map should be marked showing the
name of the village, Khasra number and area in hectares of each field and part thereof.

 N.B. - The area applied for shall cover whole survey numbers.

 (b) In the case of forest maps, the area should be marked on the map showing the range and felling
series.

 (c) In case neither cadestral nor forest maps are available, the area should be marked on sketch plan
drawn to scale showing on this plan all important surface and natural features, the dimensions of the
lines forming the boundary of the area and the bearing and distance of all corner points from any
important, prominent and fixed point or points.

 (xiv) An affidavit, that the up-to-date income tax returns, as prescribed under the Income Tax Act, 1961, have
been filed, and tax due, including the tax on account of self-assessment has been paid.

(xv) Particulars of the areas mineral-wise within the jurisdiction of the State Government for which the
applicant or any person joint in interest with him:

(a) already holds under prospecting licence and mining lease;
(b) has already applied for but not granted;
(c) being applied for simultaneously.

 (xvi) Nature of joint in interest, if any.

(xvii) If the applicant intends to supervise the works, his previous experience of prospecting and mining
should be explained; If he intends to appoint a manager, the name of such manager, his qualifications,
nature and extent of his previous experience should be specified and his consent letter should be

attached.
 (xviii) Financial resources of the applicant.
(xix) Particulars of receipted treasury challan attached for the amount referred to at 2 above.
 (xx) Any other particulars or sketch map which the Applicant wishes to furnish.
 (xxi) Authorization letter/ power of attorney from the successful allocatee company authorising the

authorised signatory to submit the application for prospecting licence-cum-mining lease is enclosed.

 I/We do hereby declare that the particulars furnished above are correct and am/are ready to furnish any other
details, including accurate plans as may be required by you.

 Yours faithfully,

(Signature and designation of the applicant)

Place

Date

Note:

 1- The application should relate to one compact area only.

 2. Such large-size map, as may be available, should be attached for proper demarcation of the areas, specially
when the area Applied for is 40 hectares or less.

 3. Detailed plan and topographical map are to be attached in triplicate with the original application.”.

 17. In the principal rules, after Schedule V, the following schedule shall be inserted, namely:—
“Schedule VI
 [see rule 21C(2) and 22B(3)]

(Standards and procedures for accreditation)
(art I—ave 3(i)] AT BT UTI : TATATLOT 57

1. Scheme for Accreditation of Accredited Prospecting Agency (APA)
2. Scheme for Accreditation of Mining Plan Preparing Agency (MPPA)
INDEX

1.0 SCHEME FOR ACCREDITATION
11 Eligibility for Accreditation
1.2 Scope of the Scheme
1.2.1 Scheme for Accreditation of Accredited Prospecting Agency (APA)
1.2.1.1 Qualification and experience of experts
1.2.2 Scheme for Accreditation of Accredited Mining Plan Preparing Agency (MPPA)
1.2.2.1 Qualification and experience of experts
1.3 Coverage of the scheme
1.4 Updation of the scheme
2.0 REQUIREMENTS OF ACCREDITATION
2.1 Human Resources
2.1.1 Project Coordinator (PC)
2.1.2 Technical Area Expert (TAE)
2.1.3. Team members (TM)
 2.1.4 General conditions for experts
2.2 Field Investigation and Laboratory Arrangement
2.2.1 Laboratory Arrangement for Analysis and Records of Data
2.2.2 Analytical Parameters
2.3 Suitable Infrastructure, P & M, Software, Office and Equipments
2.4 Quality Management System (QMS)
2.5 Quality of Prospecting (Gr), Mining Plan and Pre-feasibility/ feasibility Reports
2.6 Organizational Commitment
3.0 ACCREDITATION CYCLE
 4.0 ACCREDITATION PROCESS

4.1 Application assessment process
4.2 Decision making process
4.3 Time frame for application and accreditation processes
4.4 Accreditation process outcome
4.5 Category of accredited consultants
5.0 GRANT OF ACCREDITATION
5.1 Maintaining Accreditation
5.2 Changes after accreditation
5.3 Suspension/Cancellation/Debarment of Accreditation
5.4 Actions for Misconduct/Fraudulent Activities

 5.5 Confidentiality
6.0 GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL MECHANISM

6.1 Review of decisions
58 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

6.2 Appeal
7.0 CODE OF CONDUCT
7.2 Undertaking by consultant organization

1.0 SCHEME FOR ACCREDITATION

NABET, a constituent Board of the QCI, developed Accreditation Scheme for Prospecting and Mining Plan
Preparation Agencies/ Organizations (hereinafter called ‘the Scheme’) with inputs from various stakeholders
including experts in the field, regulatory agencies and consultants.

 This document describes the scheme’s requirements of human resources, consultancy quality assurance systems
and procedures to be followed, the assessment process and the accreditation criteria. Various aspects of the
scheme are-

a) Eligibility (who can get accredited) and coverage of the scheme
b) Human resource — qualification and experience requirement

c) Scope of accreditation

d) Consultant organization quality assurance system (CQAS)

e) Assessment and accreditation process

f) Closure/suspension/delisting/on hold etc. Of applications

For the implementation of the Scheme, NABET is guided by a group of eminent professionals in the field of
Prospecting and Mining and allied subjects and structured secretariat.

 One complete cycle of Accreditation covering 3-year period comprising Initial Accreditation, Surveillance
Assessment and Re-accreditation process. All the three processes involve assessment in 3 stages:

Stage I - Checking completeness of the application by NABET secretariat
Stage II - Technical review of documents
Stage II - Office assessment

11 Eligibility for accreditation

Only organizations meeting the eligibility criteria of this Scheme are considered for accreditation. These
consultant organizations can include government bodies, public sectors undertakings and private organizations
which could be proprietorship firms, partnership firms or companies (Pvt. & Public Limited), bodies registered
under Society Acts, under Section 25 of Companies Act, Research Institutes and the like. All requirements of the
Scheme as mentioned in this document are to be complied with for an organization to get accredited. A sole
proprietorship owned by an individual or in personal name can also apply if it fulfils all other requirements of the
Scheme.

 1.2 Scope of the Scheme

The Scheme covers the scopes for Prospecting and Mining Plan Preparation Agency who will prepare Geological
Report (GR) and Mining Plan entrusted by project proponent. Hence the scheme is divided into two sections
describing guidelines for accreditation of scope viz.

 1. Scheme for Accreditation of Accredited Prospecting Agency (APA)
2. Scheme for Accreditation of Mining Plan Preparing Agency (MPPA)
1.2.1 Scheme for Accreditation of Accredited Prospecting Agency

Any Prospecting Agency (Applicant Consultant Organization) must have expertise in all the relevant fields or can
have MoU with agencies having particular expertise if they are short of any specific area for preparation of
comprehensive geological report. The Accredited Prospecting Agency (APA) organisation can provide
consultancy for prospecting services required for Geological Report (GR) preparation. APA should cover
following aspects —

a. Drilling (Coring & Non-coring)
 b. — Topographical Survey
c. | Geo-physical survey (borehole & surface)

 d. In-seam Seismic survey, HRSS, Seismic Refraction
 [art I—ave 3(i)] Ue FT UAT: AAT ATT 59
e. Interpretation of Stratigraphy & structure
Coal Quality assessment
g.  Geo-technical studies
h. | Geo-chemical testing
i. Hydro geological studies
Geological Modelling
k. — Coal / Mineral Resource Evaluation
facility for preserving drilling cores, with self/ drilling partner
1.2.1.1 QUALIFICATION, EXPERIENCE AND FUNCTIONS OF EXPERTS
Experts involved in the Geological Reports preparation comprise Project Coordinator (Prospecting) and
Technical Area Experts (TAE). They may be helped by team members. The qualification and experience
requirements of the experts and roles envisaged for them are detailed below-
Al. Project coordinator (Prospecting):
A1.1 Minimum educational qualifications
a. Master’s (post-graduate) degree) M. Tech in_ either  subject- Geology/ Applied
Geology/Geophysics/Hydrogeology/Remote Sensing & GIS/ from a UGC/AICTE recognized
University/ Institution or equivalent.
 b. Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
 A1.2 Experience of Project Coordinator

a. Minimum 15 years overall work experience after the completion of above-mentioned qualifying
degrees.

 b. Officers retired/served for minimum 15 years in Central/ State Government/ Research Institutes/
universities/ Colleges as Geologist will be considered to fulfill the minimum experience.

 c. Proficient in MS office, CAD, ArcGIS, Modelling Software, Data Processing Tools, Geological
Modelling Tools.

 A 1.3 Specific Experience in Prospecting:

AlA4

a. Project Coordinator(PC) must have Specific experience related to planning and managing the
advanced Prospecting projects

b. Designing and implementing QAQC protocols
Geological modelling and Geostatistical analysis,

d. Resource Estimation and Resource classification in accordanc e with UNFC, NI 43-101, JORC and
SAMREC reporting codes.

 e. Prepared at least 3 Geological Report.
 f. Monitoring of 3 Geological Report (auditing, performance evaluation etc.),
g. A total of three in combination of (e) and (f)

Expected functions of Project coordinators (Prospecting):

The Project coordinator should be thoroughly aware of Prospecting methodology, requirements and be familiar
with the guidelines of report preparation, MMDR Act, Prospecting rules and all relevant regulations and its
Amendments. S/he must have a clear concept and thorough knowledge of prospecting and Prospecting
requirements. S/he should share this information with other team members.

 The expected functions of Project Coordinator are as follows:

a) Complete understanding about the project specification, develop broad scoping of the project
taking into consideration site specific requirements

b) Meeting with project Director/Owner, framing the methodology for Prospecting program.

 c) Indepth understanding in respect of topography, hydrology streams, Geology, Hydrogeology, land
use etc.,
60

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

g)

Visiting the site for appropriate duration for the selection of sampling locations and deciding the
type of samples in consultation with the TAEs.

 Collating and reviewing the reports of the TAEs which must include analysis and interpretation of
data.

 Developing the draft Geological Report and circulating the same amongst team members for final
feedback and ensuring completeness of the report.

 Discussing the draft Geological Report with the project directors/owners for their comments.

 The following areas of expertise have been identified which are required for carrying out these studies-

ii.

 Geology GEO
Geophysics GP
Remote Sensing & GIS RS
Surveying SUR
Hydrogeology HG

A2.0 Technical Area Expert (Prospecting):

A2.1 Minimum educational qualifications

a.

 Cc.

Master’s (post-graduate) degree/ M.Tech - (Geology, Applied Geology, Geophysics, Hydrogeology,
and Remote Sensing & GIS) from a UGC/AICTE recognized University/ Institution.

 OR

Bachelor’s degree/diploma or equivalent in technical subjects such as Mechanical (Drilling),
Geotechnical and Earth Resource Engineering and equivalent from a UGC/AICTE recognized
University/ Institution.

 Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.

 A2.2 | Minimum Experience for Technical Area Expert (TAE)

a.

 An expert should have a minimum 5 years overall experience in the concerned technical area(s)
knowledge in preparing Prospecting/ Geological report(s).

 Officers retired/served for minimum 5 years in Central/ State Mining Departments/Organization/
Research Institutes/ universities/ Colleges as Geologist, Geophysicist, Remote Sensing & GIS expert
and Hydrogeologist will be considered if work in the respective areas.

 Proficient in MS office, CAD, ArcGIS, Modelling Software, Data Processing Tools, Geological
Modelling Tools.

 A2.3 Specific Educational Qualification and Experience for each TAE
 A 2.3.1 Technical Area Expert - Geology (GEO):

a. Educational qualifications specific to functional area

ii.

 Master’s (post-graduate) degree/ M. Tech in either subject- Geology/ Applied Geology from a
UGC/AICTE recognized University/ Institution or equivalent.

 Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.

 b. Experience specific to functional area must include

i. Hands-on experience in geological Prospecting, mapping, and data interpretation

Knowledge of geological principles, basin modelling and mineral reserves

Preparation of ore body model using SW like Minex, Datamine, Geosoft, Minesoft, Surpac, AutoCAD,
etc.

Familiarity with Prospecting geology concepts and survey processes
Ability to interpret 2D/3D seismic data and create geologic maps and models
Ability to identify natural resources and determine their economic value

High level of analytical skills to interpret Prospecting data pertaining to mineral prospects.
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

viii.

 Cc.

 A 2.3.2

ii.

ii.

iii.

Experience in Coal/ Metal mining model preparation is preferred
Role and Responsibilities

Performs scouting of Prospecting activities in the region, preparation of Prospecting activity plans
and budget

Execution of drilling operations at prospective locations, Collection, evaluation and reporting on field
samples and prepare activity logs.

 Created and presented accurate geology-based maps, cross sections, and geological models.
 Directed, supervised and managed all work performed by field crews and drillers.

 Entered and maintained sample information and Prospecting data in relevant database.
Interpreted and complied with all applicable governmental regulations and laws.

 Evaluation of geological & mineable resources of proposals received from national & international
prospects;

Research on the feasibility of developing these mineral prospects by analysing, reviewing, and
forecasting data for operational and business planning and preparation of the feasibility study report.

 Study of available GSI, MECL and other Prospecting reports, compilation and correlation for
assessing the likely potentiality of the mineral prospect.

 Technical Area Expert - Geophysics (GP):
Educational qualifications specific to functional area

Master’s (post-graduate) degree/ M. Tech in either subject- Geophysics/ Applied Geophysics from a
UGC/AICTE recognized University/ Institution or equivalent.

 Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.

 Experience specific to functional area must include

. Planning and execution of Geophysical Surveys including special studies using suitable geophysical

technique and equipment.

 Geophysical methods comprise of measurement of signals from natural or induced phenomena of
physical properties of sub surface formation.

 Various physical properties that are made use of in different geophysical techniques are electrical
conductivity, magnetic susceptibility, density, elasticity & radioactivity etc.

Role and Responsibilities

Prospectively evaluation and Prepare concepts/ plays/ leads/ prospects inventory

2D & 3D seismic interpretation incorporated with all wells data, Well seismic calibration
Evaluate post- drill well findings based on interpretation and integration of data

Observe the reaction of recording equipment to detect irregularities

Use computers for data management, quality control and communication between the office and field
locations

Carry out Vertical electrical sounding, Magnetic / EM profiling and Borehole logging
Interpretation of the date, synthesis of results and preparation of reports

Maintenance and updating of Geophysical records

Proper transportation and maintenance of equipment’s

Must be acquainted with state and national policies.

 Technical Area Expert — Remote Sensing & GIS (RS):

Educational qualifications specific to functional area

Master’s (post-graduate) degree in Science/Technology or equivalent in Geology/ Applied Geology/
Geo-informatics from a UGC/AICTE recognized University/ Institution or equivalent”.

 Or
62

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

ii.

iii.

b.
i.
ii.
iii.
c.
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.
 Vv.
 A 2.3.4
a.
i.
ii.
b.
ii.
iii.
iv.
 v.
(om
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.
v.
vi.

 Vii.

viii.

BE / B Tech in GIS/ Remote Sensing / Spatial Sciences/ Geomatics / Geoinformatics and any other
relevant fields.

 Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
 Experience specific to functional area must include

Sound knowledge of GPS, GIS and Remote Sensing software’s like ArcGIS 10, QGIS, Erdas imaging,
Digital photogrammetry

Experience on ArcGIS extensions like Spatial Analyst, Data Management tool, Overlay Analysis.
Experience in GIS database management.

 Role and Responsibilities

GIS layer analysis, feature extraction using satellite data.

Coordinates and assigns GIS personnel to projects.

 Provides team lead oversight on projects including quality assurance, data analysis, map production and
report production

Selects from multiple procedures and methods to accomplish tasks.
 Excavation measurement to slope stability.

 Technical Area Expert - Surveying (SUR):

Educational qualifications specific to functional area

Full time Degree/Diploma in Surveying from a Govt. recognized institute and possessing valid Mines
Surveyor’s certificate of Competency from DGMS and having one-year post qualification experience in
relevant field

Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
 Experience specific to functional area must include

Having post qualification experience in Topographical Survey, Borehole survey and relevant
experience.

Familiarity with Prospecting geology concepts and survey processes

Verify the accuracy of survey data including measurements and calculations conducted at survey
sites.

 Calculate heights, depths, relative positions, and other characteristics of terrain.
 Experience in Coal/ Metal mining.
 Role and Responsibilities

Search legal records, survey records, and land titles to obtain information about boundaries in areas
to be surveyed.

 Prepare and maintain sketches, maps, reports, and legal descriptions of surveys to describe, certify,
and assume liability for work performed

Prepare or supervise preparation of all data, charts, plots, maps, records, and documents related to
surveys.

 Determine longitudes and latitudes of important features and boundaries in survey areas using
theodolites, transits, levels, and satellite-based global positioning systems (GPS).

 Coordinate findings with the work of engineering and architectural personnel, clients, and others
concerned with projects.

 Plan and conduct ground surveys designed to establish baselines, elevations, and other geodetic
measurements.

 Conducting Topographic survey, leveling etc.

Locate and mark sites selected for geophysical prospecting activities such as efforts to locate
petroleum or other mineral products.
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

A 2.3.

 a.

ii.

iii.

 A 3.0

5 Technical Area Expert - Hydrogeology (HG):
Educational qualifications specific to functional area

Master’s (post-graduate) degree in Hydrogeology/Hydrology/Water Resources Management from a
UGC/AICTE recognized University/ Institution or equivalent.

 Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
 Experience specific to functional area must include

Analysis of surface hydrogeological data pertaining to ground water, flow fluctuation, estimation of
flows; setting up and interpretation of gauging station readings, designing of ground water table
measurement and monitoring network, computation of ground water recharge, flow rate and direction.

 Plotting of ground water contours.

 Analysis and description of aquifer characteristics e.g. Permeability, transmissivity, storage coefficient
etc., estimation of groundwater potential and recharge phenomenon, determination of impact of
withdrawal of groundwater.

 Geology and Geo morphological analysis/description/ Stratigraphy/Lithology.

 Developing Geo-hydrological maps.

 Must be acquainted with state and national policies.

 Understanding of policies, guidelines and the legislation related to ground water

Role and Responsibilities

Collecting basic mine production data, such as annual output, drainage quantity, water inflow,

The water inflow (including static-storage and recharge rate) of mine was predicted and calculated by
horizontal catchment channel method, big well met hod and replenishment quantity method,
respectively.

 Hydrogeological condition changes of open-pit coal mine in grass area during production process

Team Member (TM)

 A provision of ‘Team Member’ has been included in the Scheme to provide opportunity to

d.
A3.1

experienced professionals in their own fields but lacking experience to enter the profession
Existing experts to expand the field of association

Persons who have obtained eligibility qualification but do not meet the experience requirements of TAE
or EC

This provision is available only for in-house experts

Expected functions of team member

The team member (TM) is expected to be involved both in field work as well as in the discussions amongst the PC
and the TAEs. Since s/he is expected to be knowledgeable in area of expertise, emphasis should be given to
acquaint her/him on aspects, developing the management plans and finally in report writing for her/his part of
association in the study.

 A 3.2Requirements of Experts/ Number of experts Required:

1.
2.
3.

1.2.2

Project Coordinators must be in-house (full time employee).
 Experts involved in preparing Geological reports must be in-house (full time employee).

 Any organization to be accredited must have one approved in-house PROJECT COORDINATOR (GL), one
in-house TAE (GL).

 The other TAE may be in-house or empanelled. The organisation must cover remaining TAs as per the
project requirement.

 Scheme for Accreditation of Mining PLAN Preparing Agency (MPPA)

 The Mining Plan Preparing Agency (MPPA) shall prepare Mining Plan in accordance with the standard and
procedures approved by Central Government. An applicant / consultant organisation must have expertise in
all the relevant fields or can have MoU with agencies having particular expertise if they are short of any
specific area for preparation of comprehensive Mining Plan. The Accredited Mining Plan Preparing Agency
64 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(AMPPA) can provide consultancy for services required for Mining Plan and Pre-feasibility/ Feasibility
report preparation. AMPPA should cover following aspects —

a. Mining Plan for underground and open cast mines
b. _ Pre-Feasibility/ Feasibility studies of open cast and underground mines
c. Detailed design of underground and open cast mines
d. Operational plans for open cast mines
e. | Techno-economic appraisal of mining projects
f. Technical audit of working mines
g. Introduction and adaptation of new technology for underground and open cast mines
h. Preparation of manuals and special reports
1.2.2.1 QUALIFICATION, EXPERIENCE & FUNCTION OF EXPERTS (Mining)

Experts involved in the Mining Plan preparation comprise Project Coordinator (Mining) and Technical Area
Experts (TAE). They may be helped by team members. The qualification and experience requirements of the
experts and roles envisaged for them are detailed below-

Bl. Project coordinator (Mining Plan)
B1.1 Minimum educational qualifications

a. A BE/ B. Tech/ M. Tech Degree in Mining Engineering/ Opencast Mining/ Mining Machinery or
equivalent granted by a university established or incorporated by or under a Central Act, A Provincial
Act or a State Act including any institutions recognized by the University Grants Commission under
Section 4 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 (3 of 1956) or any equivalent qualification
granted by any university or institute outside India and recognized by Government of India.

b. Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above
B1.2 Experience of Project Coordinator

a. Professional experience 15 years overall work experience after the completion of above-mentioned
qualifying degrees. Modification to a mining plan shall be carried out by a person qualified to prepare a
mining plan.

 b. Officers retired/served for minimum 15 years in Central/ State Government/ Research Institutes/
universities/ Colleges will be considered to fulfil the minimum experience.

 c. Proficient in MS office, CAD, ArcGIS, Modelling Software, Data Processing Tools, Geological
Modelling Tools.

 B1.3 Mining Plan Preparation Specific experience:

Project Coordinator (PC) must have Mining Plan Preparation Specific experience as follows:
 a. Prepared at least 3 Mining Plans.
 b. Monitoring of 3 Mining Plan (Pre-feasibility/ Feasibility report, auditing, performance evaluation etc.),
c. A total of three in combination of (a) and (b).

 B1.4 Expected functions of Project coordinators (Mining Plan):

The Project Co-ordinator (Mining plan) shall prepare Mining Plan in accordance with guidelines issued by Central
government as per the approved standards and procedures and shall be responsible for correctness of the data
furnished. Mining engineers design the future mine layouts capable of achieving production and mine
development objectives, taking into account the geological characteristics and structure of the mineral resource.
 They prepare production and development schedules and monitor progress against these. The Project coordinator
should be thoroughly aware of Mining Plan requirements and be familiar with the guidelines of report preparation,
MMDR Act, rules and all relevant regulations and its Amendments. S/he must have a clear concept and thorough
knowledge of Mining Plan requirements. S/he should share this information with other team members.

 Understanding of preparing mining plan including the following activities-

i. Detailed topography, mine geology, mineral deposit & existence, details of Prospecting, indicating
geological and recoverable reserve, sections calculations, slice plan/level plan method, its layout phases,
mechanization, operations, mine life, overburden, reservoir, mineral estimation etc and other.
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

ii. Blasting parameters, types of explosive, powder factor, storage of explosive.
 iii. Mine drainage, stacking of mineral rejections, use of mineral & its processing and waste disposal,
iv. Environmental management plan describing the impact of mining and beneficiation on environment on

the following over the next five years giving brief information about water regime, biodiversity, quality
of air, noise level, climatic conditions, socio-economic, regional aspects and others along with time
bound action.

 v. Year wise proposal of reclamation of land.
 vi. Monitoring schedules for different environmental components after the commencement of mining and
other related activities.
 Vii. Mine closure plan and Rehabilitation & Resettlement plan.
 Viii. Leadership quality in planning, selecting and guiding the team.
 ix. Activities related to Safety Planning and accident analysis.

 The Mining expert is the key person for preparing Mining reports and plans.
 B2.0 Technical area experts for Mining Plan and Design
B2.1 Technical Area Experts (TAEs)

Mining Plan and Design is also multi-disciplinary activity where the central figure is the Mining Expert (ME) who
should have broad knowledge and practical experience of preparing Mining Plan. S/he should have-

a) Clarity in the concept of the mining, knowledge of the applicable standards, Acts, Rules and regulations.
 b) Domain knowledge and understanding of the organization, industry.

 The following areas of expertise have been identified which are required for carrying out these studies-

i. Mining Engineering ME
il. Mining Geology MGEO
iil. Remote Sensing & GIS RS
iv. Civil, Electrical & Mechanical CEM
v. Marketing & Finance M&F
vi. Socio Economics SE
Vii. Environment, Health & Safety EHS
Viii. Geotechnical (optional) GT

B2.2 Minimum Educational Qualification for TAEs

a. A BE/ B. Tech/ M. Tech Degree in Mining Engineering/ Opencast Mining/ Mining Machinery or
equivalent granted by a university established or incorporated by or under a Central Act, A Provincial Act
or a State Act including any institutions recognized by the University Grants Commission under Section 4
of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 (3 of 1956) or any equivalent qualification granted by
any university or institute outside India and recognized by Government of India.

 b. Professional experience of three (3) years of working in a supervisory capacity in the field of mining after
obtaining the degree.

 c. Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
 B2.3. Minimum Experience for TAEs

a. An expert should have a minimum 5 years overall experience in the concerned technical area(s)
knowledge in preparing Mining Plan.

 b. Officers retired/served for minimum 5 years in Central/ State Mining Departments/Organization/
Research Institutes/ universities/ Colleges will be considered if work in the respective areas.

 c. Proficient in MS office, CAD, ArcGIS, Modelling Software, Data Processing Tools, Geological
Modelling Tools.

B2.4 —_ Specific Educational Qualification and Experience For Each TAE
66

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

B2.41

a.

ii.

B 2.4.2

Technical Area Expert — Mining Engineer (ME):
Educational qualifications specific to functional area

 A BE/ B. Tech/ B. Sc Engg. / AMIE / M. Tech Degree in Mining Engineering/ Opencast Mining/
Mining Machinery or equivalent granted by a university established or incorporated by or under a
Central Act, A Provincial Act or a State Act including any institutions recognized by the University
Grants Commission under Section 4 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 (3 of 1956) or any
equivalent qualification granted by any university or institute outside India and recognized by
Government of India

Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
 Experience specific to functional area must include
Mining Plan/ Pre- Feasibility/ Feasibility Project Report preparation
Design of Mining Methods for OC/UG Coal/ Metal/ Non-Metal Mines
Knowledge in broad range current and new UG/OC mining operations
Emerging mining technologies and concepts
Techno- Economic Feasibility for Coal, Metal and Non- Metal Minerals.
 Selection of Mining Equipment’s and Machineries.
 Practical experience in risk management in Mine Design.
 Design and scheduling best practice tools and methodologies.
 Knowledge of Geology, GIS, Drill & Blast, mining principals and other related mining support services
Role and Responsibilities

Prepare surface and underground plans and blueprints of a mining plans, use of survey data and risk
assessment of mine.

 Prepare Mining Plan/ Pre- Feasibility/ Feasibility Project that describe results and processes of mining,
Reconciliation of Prospecting data from economical mine plan, production plans reports.

 Use of mine planning software - Use specialized software to plan, design and model for mining
operations

Planning equipment for mineral treatment; communicate and collaborate with engineering experts
Generate weekly, monthly, quarterly or annual production plan.

 Technical Area Expert — Mining Geologist (MGEO):

Educational qualifications specific to functional area

Master’s (post-graduate) degree/ M. Tech in either subject- Geology/ Applied Geology from a
UGC/AICTE recognized University/ Institution or equivalent.

 Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
 Experience specific to functional area must include

Preparation of ore body modelling using Geological Prospecting data, its interpretation, mapping using
SW like Minex, Datamine, Geosoft, Minesoft, Surpac, AutoCAD, etc

Ability to interpret 2D/3D seismic data and create geologic maps and models

Knowledge and experience of the technologi es currently implemented for mining plan, GIS, Drilling,
mining principals

Role and Responsibilities

Performs scouting of Prospecting activities in the region, preparation of Prospecting activity plans and
budget

Execution of drilling operations at prospective locations, Collection, evaluation and reporting on field
samples and prepare activity logs.

 Create accurate geology-based maps, lithologs, cross sections and geological models.
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA 67

B 2.4.3

ii.

iii.

iv.

vi.

Directed, supervised and managed all work performed by field crews and drillers.
 Entered and maintained sample information and Prospecting data in relevant database.
Interpreted and complied with all applicable governmental regulations and laws.
 Evaluation of geological & mineable resources from national & international prospects;

Research on the feasibility of developing these mineral prospects by analysing, reviewing, and
forecasting data for operational and business planning and preparation of the feasibility study report.

 Study of available GSI, MECL and other Prospecting reports, compilation and correlation for assessing
the likely potentiality of the mineral prospect.

 Technical Area Expert — Remote Sensing & GIS (RS):
Educational qualifications specific to functional area

Master’s (post-graduate) degree in Science/Technology or equivalent in either subject- Geology/ Applied
Geology/ Geo-informatics from a UGC/AICTE recognized University/ Institution or equivalent.

 Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.

 Experience specific to functional area must include

Sound knowledge of GIS and Remote Sensing software’s like ArcGIS, QGIS, Erdas etc.
Experience on ArcGIS extensions like Spatial Analyst, Data Management tool, Overlay Analysis.
Experience in GIS database management.

 Role and Responsibilities

Remote Sensing, GIS, GPS,

Digital photogrammetry,

Excavation measurement to slope stability.

 Technical Area Expert - Surveying (SUR):

Educational qualifications specific to functional area

Full time Degree/Diploma in Mining & Mines’ Surveying from a Govt. recognized institute and
possessing valid Mines Surveyor’s certificate of Competency from DGMS and having one-year post
qualification experience in relevant field

Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.

 Experience specific to functional area must include

Having post qualification experience in Topographical Survey, Borehole survey and relevant experience.
 Familiarity with Prospecting geology concepts and survey processes

Verify the accuracy of survey data including measurements and calculations conducted at survey sites.
 Calculate heights, depths, relative positions, and other characteristics of terrain.

 Experience in Coal/Metal mining.

 Role and Responsibilities

Search legal records, survey records, and land titles to obtain information about boundaries in areas to be
surveyed.

 Prepare and maintain sketches, maps, reports, and legal descriptions of surveys to describe, certify, and
assume liability for work performed

Prepare or supervise preparation of all data, charts, plots, maps, records, and documents related to
surveys.

 Determine longitudes and latitudes of important features and boundaries in survey areas using
theodolites, transits, levels, and satellite-based global positioning systems (GPS).

 Coordinate findings with the work of engineering and architectural personnel, clients, and others
concerned with projects.

 Plan and conduct ground surveys designed to establish baselines, elevations, and other geodetic
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

iii.

iv.

measurements.
 Conducting Topographic survey, levelling etc,

Locate and mark sites selected for geophysical prospecting activities such as efforts to locate petroleum
or other mineral products.

 Technical Area Expert — Civil, Electrical & Mechanical (CEM):
Educational qualifications specific to functional area

BE/B. Tech/B.Sc. Engg. /AMIE/M Tech in Mechanical/Electrical/Civil Engineering from recognized
University or Institute approved by AICTE

Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
 Experience specific to functional area must include

Design of various structures for both open-pit and underground mines

Plan and design hydraulic systems and transportation structures and systems
Manage the construction, operation and maintenance of the work

Test soils and various other material to determine the requirement needed for the building of foundations
and structures

Assist in the design and drawing of complex electrical systems

Work extensively with electrical equipment such as circuits and transformers
Experience in planning and optimising of Plant and Machinery for mining plan
Role and Responsibilities

Design and Layout of Civil Infrastructure Design (Township, Water Works Distribution, Domestic
Effluent Plant)

Coal Preparation and coal Handling Units (CHP) Design

Heavy Earth Moving Machinery Equipments (HEMM) Workshop Design.

 Mine Shafts Units, Mine Ventilation by Simulation Modelling

Washery Design and Implementation of Modern Washability Methods

In-Pit Crushing and Conveying System (IPCCC) and ROPECON Technology Application
High Angle Belt Conveying System in both O/C & U/G Mines

Energy Efficiency Study (Electrical & Diesel Equipments) of Mines and International Bench Marking
of the Mining Activities

Consultancy on “Energy Sensitive Organizational Structure"
All mine specific software development and IT enabled services
GPS enabled monitoring mechanism
Technical Area Expert — Marketing & Finance (M&F):
Educational qualifications specific to functional area
CA/ ICWA or B. Tech with MBA.
 Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
 Experience specific to functional area must include
Experience in establishing commercial viability of the project, Budgeting and financing;

Identifies the existence of markets or long-term, contracts for the product; and decides whether or not
the mine should be developed

Stripping costs where removal of overburden occurs for production, calculation of stripping
adjustments

Determination of impairment charges
 [aT [avs 3(i)] AT PT UTI : AAT ATT 69

c Role and Responsibilities
i. Detailed Project Costing & Financial Structuring.

ii. Risk Analysis Study

iii. Macro and Micro Analysis of Project Viability
iv. Equipment’s Depreciation and amortization
v. Profitability Index Study.

 B 2.4.7 Technical Area Expert — Socio-Economics (SE):
a. Educational qualifications specific to functional area

i. Master’s (post graduate) degree in Social Welfare / Sociology/ Political Science/ Psychology/
Geography/ Anthropology/ Economics/Environmental Economics/Urban _ Planning/Regional
Planning/Environmental Planning, Developmental Sciences

or

Rural Development and Management — rural economics/ Economic Sociology/ Demographic Studies

or
ii. MBA (Rural Management)

or
iii. Any other social science related subject

or
iv. 2 years Post Graduate Diploma in Sociology from recognized Institution like Tata Institute of Social

Sciences, Xavier Institute of Social Sciences, Ranchi/Xavier Institute of Management,
Bhubaneswar/XLRI, Jamshedpur and other reputed institutes.

 v. Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
 b. Experience specific to functional area must include
i. Conducting baseline socio-economic surveys through interviews/ questionnaire/focused group
discussions/participatory rural appraisal (PRA)/rapid rural appraisal (RRA)
ii. Methodologies on extrapolation of census data to project an up-to-date status including selected ground
validation of the same
iii. Conduct social needs assessment studies
iv. Evaluation of socio-economic status of both tribal and non-tribal areas
v. Demonstrated capacity to interact and develop rapport at community level will be an added advantage
vi. Conduct Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R & R) studies for people displaced due to developmental

projects and development for R & R plan
Vii. Assessment of social changes arising out of development projects
The following are the additional expectation from the expert:
° Understanding of policies, guidelines and the legislation related to R & R issues
° Social Impact Assessment of development projects in Rural/ Urban areas
B 2.4.8 Technical Area Expert — Environment, Health & Safety (EHS):
a. Educational qualifications specific to functional area

i. B. Tech/B. E/ M. Tech in Environmental Engineering, Civil, Geotechnical engineering or
Engineering Geology or equivalent.

ii. Desirable — Diploma in (Industrial Safety) from premier institutions (like CLI, RLIs, NITIE,
NITs, P. G. Diploma recognized by State Board of Technical Education).

 b. Experience specific to functional area must include

i. Outstanding knowledge of EHS management systems and related software
70 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

ii. Familiarity with OHSAS standards and regulations
iii. Planning of Long-term Sustainability initiatives (Natural capital, Human capital)

iv. Specifications for Specific Dust emission, water consumption, energy consumption, Solid waste
utilization and Green belt development.

 v. Facilitate Engineering & Project department by implementing various environment improvement projects
vi. Should have experience as Safety Officer preferably in Mining Industry

c. Role and Responsibilities

i. Prepares and assist in compliance's, general risk assessments and other safety assessments to support
Health, Safety and Environmental management
ii. Responsible for Industrial Hygiene, Occupational Health, Waste Management and business process
enhancements
iii. Maintain EHS configurations and Maintain operational procedures around supported environments
iv. Write, implement, and manage HSE Programs, Policies and Procedures
v. Develop Safe Operating Procedure (SOP's) and Job Hazard Analysis

B 2.4.9 Technical Area Expert - Geotechnical (GT):
a. Educational qualifications specific to functional area

a. B. Tech/B. E/ M. Tech in Civil, Rock/ Soil Mechanics and Geotechnical engineering or Engineering
Geology or equivalent.

 b. Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
 b. Experience specific to functional area must include
a. Rock strength tests like Triaxial test, compressive strength test, Unified compressive strength etc
b. — Rock-quality designation (RQD) measured as a percentage of the drill core in lengths of 10 cm or more
c. Investigation, analysis and modelling of geotechnical issues
d. Geotechnical characterization of borehole core and domain modelling
e. Impact testing, Scratch testing etc.
 f. Work closely with the Geology department to optimize safe, timely drill-hole results
c. Role and Responsibilities
a. Slope design for open pits
 b. Headings, roadways and drifts for underground operations
c. Panel and longwall design
d. —‘ Tailing dam design
e. Special constructions
f. Geological Structure using precision measuring and testing instruments
B3.0 Team Member (TM)
 A provision of ‘Team Member’ has been included in the Scheme to provide opportunity to
a. Experienced professionals in their own fields but lacking experience to enter the profession
b. Existing experts to expand the field of association

c. Persons who have completed 5 years after obtaining eligibility qualification but do not meet the
experience requirements of TAE or EC

d. This provision is available only for in-house experts
 B3.1 Expected functions of team member

The team member (TM) is expected to be involved both in field work as well as in the discussions amongst the PC
and the TAEs. Since s/he is expected to be knowledgeable in area of expertise, emphasis should be given to
(art I—ave 3(i)] AT BT UTI : TATATLOT 71

acquaint her/him on aspects, developing the management plans and finally in report writing for her/his part of
association in the study.

 B4.0 Requirements of Experts/ Number of experts Required:

1. Project Coordinators must be in-house (full time employee).
 2. Experts involved in preparing Mine Planning reports must be in-house (full time employee).
 3. Any organization to be accredited must have one approved in-house Project Coordinator (Mining), one

in-house TAE (Mining).

 4. The other TAE may be in-house or empanelled. The organisation must cover remaining TAs as per the
project requirement.

 13 Coverage of the Scheme

This comprehensive document describes the scheme’s requirements of human resource, Quality Management
Systems and procedures to be followed, integrity of data, the assessment process, the accreditation criteria and
other relevant requirements of the Scheme.

 1.4 Updation of the Scheme

The accreditation Scheme is dynamic in nature. Modifications and updation will take place from time to
time with the consultation and approval of Ministry. It ought to be for continually improving the delivery
and effectiveness of the consultancy.

QCI/NABET reserves all rights to amend its procedures and fees etc., as it may deem fit. Applicants are requested
to refer to the updated scheme on the QCI/NABET website (http://nabet.qci.org.in/) before applying for their
accreditation/surveillance/re-accreditation/expansion or modification of scope.

 2.0 Requirements for Accreditation

The accreditation requirements have been developed with a view to have system-based approach. The
scheme specifies the following six essential requirements for accreditation:

i. Human resource
il. Field investigation and laboratory arrangement
iil. Suitable infrastructure, P & M, Software, office and Equipment

iv. Quality Management System (QMS)

v. Quality of reports

vi. Organizational commitment
vii. Compliance to conditions of accreditation/ improvements achieved
21 Human resource

Preparation of a Prospecting report and Mining Plan and mine design is essentially multi-disciplinary
activity where inputs are required from experts having knowledge of the prospecting, mining and
industry/sector for which reports are to be carried out.

 2.1.1 Project Coordinator (PC)

The Project coordinator should have broad knowledge about the project. The role of the PC includes, but not
be limited to, studying and understanding the project, setting-up the team, visiting the site with the team,
evolving work schedule and ensuring that data are appropriately utilized for generating the comprehensive
report, correct interpretation and correlation of the data, and maintenance of necessary records.

 The essential requisites for PC include the following —

° Conceptual understanding of project requirements, process and outcome.

 ° Knowledge of the applicable Acts, Rules and Regulations governing the project.
 ° Domain knowledge

° Leadership quality in planning, selecting and guiding the team

 Thus, for Project Coordinator emphasis is given on experience and maturity.
 72 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

For educational qualification, minimum experience and expected functions of Project Coordinators (PC) for
different schemes please refer to below mentioned respective appendices.

 1. Project Coordinator Prospecting
2. Project Coordinator Mining Plan
2.1.2 Technical Area Expert (TAE)

TAEs are expected to identify and assess in their respective areas of expertise for adequate input for the report
input and provide their expert inputs to the PC. TAEs should have -

° an in-depth knowledge in their respective areas of specialization
° understanding of the legislations and rules/regulations with respect to the technical areas
° the capability of identifying the need of the project,

For educational qualification, minimum experience and expected functions of Project Coordinators (PC) for
different schemes please refer to below mentioned respective appendices.

 1. Technical Area Expert Prospecting

2. Technical Area Expert Mining Plan
2.1.3. Team members (TM)
A provision of ‘Team Member’ has been introduced to:

° Encourage induction of new professionals experienced in their respective technical areas but lack direct
related experience.

 ° Give opportunity to professionals in the field to build their competencies for handling different technical
areas under the Scheme. This provision is available for in-house employees only.

 NABET must be informed about involving professional as team member prior to actually engaging her/him for
the job.

 2.1.4 General conditions for experts

a. Experts involved in preparing reports, namely PCs and TAEs, can be both, in-house (full time
employee) or empanelled as per requirement.

b. In-house (IH) expert- is a full-time employee working on the pay rolls of the applicant organization
(AO)/accredited consultant organization (ACO) on regular basis (not on ‘time to time basis’ or on ‘as
an when required’ basis) and gets appropriately paid as per her/his qualification and experience. All
payments to an in-house expert are to be made through bank and are subject to TDS, as applicable.

 c. An expert working full time (as per the above definition) in an organization and not working in any
capacity, part time or full time, in any other organization, may opt for a designation as ‘Consultant’.
 Such a person may be considered as an ‘in-house expert’ after necessary due diligence by NABET
assessors during office assessment.

 d. Empanelled expert—an AO/ACO may also have ‘empanelled’ experts. An empanelled expert may be a
‘freelancer’ (not a full-time employee of any organization) or may be working with an NGO or
Research organization/Academic institute. In the latter case, a No objection certificate (NOC) is to be
obtained from the Registrar for a University, the Principal for a college and the head of organization for
an NGO or a Research organization, as the case may be. The AO/ACO must have an MOU/written
agreement with such experts. Details to be included in NOC and MOU/Agreement.

 e. A person working in an organization other than a NGO/Research/Academic Institute cannot opt as an
empanelled expert for an AO/ACO. A full time Director in a Private/Public Limited company or a
‘Partner’ in a partnership firm is considered as a full-time employee of the organization/firm and is not
eligible to opt as an empanelled expert under the Scheme. However, if a person is an Independent
Director in a company, s/he is eligible to be an empanelled expert with a maximum of five AO/ACO. In
such cases, relevant documentary evidence has to be furnished of his/her being an Independent Director
in the company.

 f. An expert employed with an NGO or a Research/Academic institute may seek empanelment with a
maximum 3 AO/ACO. (subject to condition 5.1.6 xi given below)
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

73

g. All empanelled candidates/experts are required to furnish a Declaration of Association signed by the
candidate/expert and countersigned by the authorized signatory of the AO/ACO. There should also be a
MOU or Agreement between the empanelled candidate/expert stating the tenure and scope of
association duly signed by both parties.

 h. Empanelled experts may contribute to the report as and when the work is assigned to them. However,
their expected functions are same as those for IH experts.

i. PCs, TAEs and TMs must maintain field log books of their visits to the site giving the observations,
work done etc., for the stated activity.

 j. Submission of any false or misleading information in any of the above aspects, shall lead to the
cancellation of approval of such experts and/or application/ accreditation of the organization.

 2.2 Field investigation and laboratory arrangement

Collection of quality primary data is of crucial importance for preparing Prospecting, Mining Plan and Pre-
Feasibility/ Feasibility reports. A good understanding of the project based on visit to the project site by approved
PCs and TAEs is of utmost importance for developing the scope of study and for data collection.

 The field investigation would include as per the Prospecting plan to cover following aspects:

i. Exploration coverage
ii. Borehole Density as per ISP norms
iii. Coring and Non-Coring Drilling data

iv. Geophysical logging

v. RQD and Physico-Mechanical test
vi. Survey Data
vii. Hydrogeological Data

2.2.1 | Laboratory arrangement for analysis and records of Results w.r.t. DATA

The AO/APA may have an in-house laboratory or agreement/MOU/Work Order with one or more external
laboratories for work related to collecting data. If it engages more than one laboratory to cover its requirements of
Prospecting report being carried out in different parts of the country, it should have a clear internal guideline of
assigning the work to a particular laboratory and maintaining the necessary record of the same.

 Laboratories engaged for the Coal core analysis should be carried out in Govt/NABL accredited recognized
laboratory. All analyses should be carried out as specified guidelines. The scope of accreditation/
recognition/certification should cover relevant parameters.

 In specific cases, in-house laboratories of a university/ research institute may also be considered, and assessed by
the Assessors to be appropriate for consideration under the Scheme.

 Wherever such data generation includes collection of samples at the site by the AO/APA followed by analysis of
the same at the laboratory, a detailed written down procedure should be available with the AO/APA in the QMS,
including methodologies for collection, preservation and transportation of such samples to the laboratory. The
procedure should specifically address as to who are to be involved in selecting sampling locations, parameters to
be analysed for, collection, preservation/transportation etc. of samples.

 2.3 Suitable infrastructure, P & M, Software, office and Equipments: May be referred at the website of
QCI-NABET

2.4 Quality management system (QMS) -

One of the long-term objectives of this Scheme is to encourage the consultant organizations to adopt system-
oriented approach for report preparation. Ideally, all Prospecting and Mining Plan Preparation Agency/
organizations should have their own report preparation manual as well which they may enrich from their
learnings’ over the years.

 To facilitate the above, the applicant organization must maintain a Quality Management Systems (QMS) for the
organizations. The QMS should be based on the current version of ISO 9001 standards. Although it is not
mandatory that the organization should be ISO 9001 certified, the QMS must address the requirements of ISO
9001 and the specific requirements of the Scheme.

 Prospecting Consultants are advised to establish and maintain a Quality Management System (QMS) for their
organization as the same offers the following benefits;
74 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

° Creates a culture of doing things right, the very first time.

 ° Inculcates the culture of “saying, what we do and doing, what we say”

° Increases system orientation and reduces person specific dependence.

 ° Encourages uniform knowledge sh aring and develops skilled work force.
° Helps develop team spirit

° Reduces duplicate work and minimizes wastages.

 ° Improves quality of work and brand image.

 QMS should be based on ISO 9001 while addressing specific requirements of NABET Scheme. Please note that
if an organization is already ISO 9001 certified, guidelines B1 to B4 and B10 are normally addressed (which
may please be checked). It is then required to develop procedures for the NABET specific items i.e., B4 to B9
and integrate them with the system meaning that these should also come under the ambit of auditing, document
control, management review etc.

 If an organization has not been initiated into the system-oriented approach of working which is documented,
audited and reviewed, it needs to acquaint itself of ISO 9001 requirements. Such organizations may initially take
the help of a consultant but MUST NOT OUTSOURCE THE WORK OF ESTABLISHING THE QMS to him to
meet the requirements of the NABET Scheme. Such an approach will be counterproductive as the system so
developed is less likely to be owned by the working team and would remain a standalone document. THE BEST
WAY IS TO GET THE GUIDANCE OF A CONSULTANT BUT LET THE WORKING TEAM ESTABLISH
THE SYSTEM.

 A QMS is supported by a 3-tier documentation system

° The Quality Management System manual
° Procedures
° Work instructions/forms/formats/checklists to implement the procedures

Guidelines for developing the QMS —

Quality policy shall be defined to address at least following:

a. Be appropriate to the Organization’s purpose & context, and support its strategic direction
b. Includes commitment for, continual improvement and satisfy applicable requirements

c. Provide a framework for setting objectives and a review mechanism

d. Be communicated and understood within the Organization

e. Focus on customer satisfaction

Leadership and Planning Support & Operation- Shall give procedures for planning, operations & support
for defined QMS including role and accountability of Top management.

 a. Accountability for Effective design and implementation of QMS is defined

b. Use of process approach and risk-based thinking is evident

c. System for effective communication is defined and implemented

d. Risk Management process is established, that is linked to organizations context

e. Interested parties for organization’s QMS are identified and their inputs are captured to improve QMS
f. System for change management is defined and implemented

 g. Shall determine, provide and maintain the infrastructure necessary for its operation and processes.

 h. Shall plan implement and control the processes needed to meet the requirements as per defined QMS

Control of documented information shall give procedures for:
a. Uniquely identifying documents and records
b. Approving documents prior to issue

c. Distribution, access, retrieval and use
[art I—ave 3(i)] ATT BT UIST: AAT ATCT 75
d. Control of changes
e. Reviewing and updating of documents, as required
f. Retention and Disposition
g. Ensuring quick availability of relevant revision of the document
h. Storage, protection and retrieval of documented information and handling of outdated/superseded

documents

Performance Evaluation and Review shall give procedures for:

a.

b.

 Cc.

Fixing Key Performance Indicators (KPI) of experts involved and annual appraisal of the same
Assessing / ensuring the quality of Geological reports prepared

Periodic and systematic audit, both internal and external and follow up action for closure of Non-
conformances (NCs)/ observations.

 Management review giving periodicity and issues to be taken up including feedback from project
proponent on quality of Geological reports prepared and necessary follow up action.

 Actions taken to address Non- conformances-— shall give procedures for:

a.

e.

f.

Analysing the NCs of internal audits as well as external audits including NABET to identify the causes
and the actions to be taken,

Identifying resources and other inputs required for such actions,
Fixing the time frame and the responsibility for the actions,
Ensuring the completion of the actions to be taken,

Review the effectiveness of corrective actions taken

Review risks, opportunities and overall QMS if required

Competence management of staff, experts and other persons related to scope of QMS- shall give procedures

for:

g.

Define and provide the necessary persons needed for effective implementation of QMS

Define the necessary competence (Education, experience and skills) for staff, experts and other persons
whether in house or contractual, impacting the QMS of the organization,

Assessing the work done by the prospective experts prior to their retention

Framing the “terms of reference” for retention of the expert, including preparation of the report for
her/his portion of the work,

Assessing performance of the work done by the experts for the organization,

 Wherever applicable, take appropriate actions to acquire necessary competence and evaluate the
effectiveness of actions taken

Maintain appropriate documented information as evidence of competence.

Collection and measurement of primary data

‘Primary’ data will cover all forms of data collected through the field work, for assessing the project area. The
procedures for collecting primary data should include:

a.

Site visits by the Prospecting team to familiarize about site conditions to plan for the Prospecting
Selecting the number and location of monitoring stations and the type of sampling and parameters to be
monitored

Interpretation of data including statistical analysis to arrive at meaningful information

Specifying as appropriate for the scope of Prospecting methodologies to be followed and interpretation
of the same.

Collation, synthesis and interpretation of secondary data —

Authenticity, credibility, appropriateness and relevance of the secondary data are the cornerstones of a good
Geological report. Secondary data shall be used to supplement the primary data and under no circumstances this
shall be used as a replacement of primary data. This procedure should include information on:
76 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

a. | When secondary data would be resorted to
b. — Relevant secondary data to be collected as appropriate for Prospecting study requirements
c. Sources of secondary data ensuring their reliability and age
d. Validation of important secondary data by cross verification at the site or from other sources
e. — Ensuring the brevity of the data (eliminating irrelevant information)
 It is a good practice to give reference to the source when secondary data is used.

 Control of externally provided process, products and services

Organization shall give procedure to apply necessary controls for the externally provided processes, products and
services.

 The manual should mention procedures for:

a. Defining the conditions when outsourcing would be resorted to

b. Assessing the capability of the agency to take up the work to be outsourced

c. Drawing up the terms of reference for the outsourced work

d. Identifying steps to be taken to ensure the quality of the outsourced work

e. Timely review, monitor and control on outsourced services as per defined QMS
Laboratory work for Prospecting data — should give procedures for:

a. Assessing a laboratory for its capability to analyze the parameters required for collection of surface and
sub surface Prospecting data and studies

b. Identifying the scope of work to be assigned to the lab and those to be done by the Prospecting
Consultant Organization

Collection, preservation and transportation of samples from site to the laboratory

d. Quality assurance by the team of the primary data collection work including supervision at site

e. Type of records to be maintained by the laboratory and the team on the baseline data collection work
Customer satisfaction & Complaints—shall give procedures for

a. Monitor customers perceptions of the degree to which their needs and expectations are fulfilled.

 b. Informing the clients about the provision of complaints

c. Accepting complaints

d. Handling and disposal (including authority and responsibility) of the same within reasonable time

e. Maintaining records of complaints

f. Ensuring implementation of correction and corrective actions
2.5 Quality of Prospecting (GR), Mining Plan and Pre-feasibility/ Feasibility reports

One of the important objectives of the Scheme is to establish the quality of report prepared by Consultant
Organizations, give feedback to them on areas of improvement so that there is consistent report quality. The
assessment criteria include accuracy of site description, quality of data, analysis and interpretation of the data.

 2.6 Organizational commitment

The objective of the Scheme is to identify credible Prospecting and Mining Plan Preparation Agencies
organizations who should prepare best quality Prospecting (GR), Mining plan and Pre-feasibility/ Feasibility
report in the country. This will be possible when there is a commitment from the accredited agencies towards
comprehensive report. This has been factored in the Scheme and for Re-accreditation assessment compliance to
the accreditation condition by the accredited agency/ organization since receiving accreditation is also taken into
account (see Section 6 below).

 3.0 ACCREDITATION CYCLE

Accreditation Cycle in this Scheme is for 3 years and comprises 3 types of assessments:
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

77

Initial accreditation (IA): In the IA, the potential of the applicant organization is assessed and based on that
accreditation is granted. On successful completion of the initial assessment, an applicant organization is given
accreditation for 3 years, subject to a surveillance assessment after 18 months.

 Surveillance assessment (SA): This is to assess performance after IA. The basic objective is to judge to what
extent the performance along with compliance to the conditions of accreditation has been met. SA falls due 18
months after IA.

 Re-accreditation (RA): Following the principle of ‘consistency’, in RA the emphasis is laid on the consistent
quality achieved by the ACO during the period of accreditation. Since, the ultimate objective of the Scheme is to
improve the quality of Mining plan/ Geological Reports being prepared in our country, weightage accorded to it
gradually increases from IA to SA to RA.

 On completion of three years from initial accreditation, the organization is re-assessed broadly as per the process
followed for Initial Assessment with emphasis on improvements achieved.

 4.0 ACCREDITATION PROCESS

 The accreditation procedure for IA, SA and RA includes three processes:
A. Application assessment process
B. Office assessment process
C. Decision making process

4.1 Application assessment process

There are separate application forms for IA, SA, RA, expansion of scope and supplementary assessment for
replacing approved experts who may have left the organization. These can be downloaded from the NABET
website www.http://nabet.qci.org.in/ .

 Applicants are advised to go through the accreditation scheme carefully prior to preparing/submitting their
application. They must complete the Self-assessment to know if the applications are ready for submission and
whether they are ready for NABET assessment. This would greatly reduce processing time benefiting both, the
Applicant organization (AO) /Accredited Consultant Organization (ACO) and NABET. Applications are to be
 submitted in soft format only. In case, NABET requires hard copy of a document, the same is intimated to the
AO/ACO.

 Application for SA must be submitted three months prior to the when SA is due i.e. on completion of 16 months
after date of office assessment for IA. Similarly, RA application should be submitted three months prior to
expiry of accreditation period i.e., on completion of 34 months after date of office assessment for IA.

 NABET application process is on-line and procedure to be adopted for applying on-line will be posted on the
QCI/NABET website.

 Assessment of the applications is carried out in 3 stages -

Stage I- Checking completeness of the application by NABET secretariat

Applications submitted by an AO/ACO must be complete in all respects and is inclusive of all supporting
documents mentioned in the checklist of Application Form (for LA, SA, RA) of this Scheme.

 NABET secretariat checks if the

(a) Application is complete in all respects,
(b) Information submitted is in relevant formats and
(c) Application is accompanied by the requisite fee.

 In case an application is grossly incomplete in respect of candidates/experts, laboratory arrangement etc.,
NABET secretariat informs the AO/ACO of the inadequacies. Such applications are processed further once the
inadequacies are addressed. For other applications, the NABET secretariat forwards the application to the
principal assessor (see below) with its observations for technical scrutiny. The AO/ACO is advised to carefully
study the requirements before filling in the application.

 Stage II - Technical review of documents

Assessors with vast experience in the relevant fields conduct technical review of documents of the applications
submitted to NABET. For each application two assessors are assigned. The Principal Assessor (PA) carries out
the Stage II assessment supported by the NABET staff. The PA is joined by a Co-Assessor (CA) for the office
assessment (see below). In case the number of experts involved is large, NABET may assign more CAs to
78 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

expedite the process. After Stage II assessment the PA may raise Non-Conformances (NCs) and/or Observations
(Obs.) pointing out the areas where the application does not meet the requirements of the Scheme. After the NCs
and Obs. are successfully closed by the AO/ACO, further processing of the application i.e. the office assessment
is taken up.

 Stage III - Office assessment

It involves assessment of an application in the following six aspects:

a Quality and performance of personnel

b. Infrastructure, P & M, adequate Software (SW) and Hardware (HW)

c. Field investigations and laboratory systems to ensure data integrity

d. Quality Management System

e. Quality of Prospecting Work, Mining Plan and Pre-feasibility/ Feasibility report data
f. Organizational evaluation/commitment

g- Compliance to condition of accreditation/ improvements achieved(for SA and RA)

The assessment process is primarily evidence based and objective in nature. After obtaining accreditation, an ACO
is expected to strictly abide by the conditions of accreditation. Efforts towards capacity building and commitment
to quality work are given due weightage.

 Normally, 10 days prior notice is given to the AO/ACO for office assessment. However, NABET reserves the
right to visit the office/site un-announced, if it is deemed necessary.

 4.2 Decision making process

On completion of office assessment process, a joint report is prepared by the PA and CA (or CAs) and sent to
the NABET secretariat for further processing. The PA is responsible for the final report. NABET secretariat
after checking the completeness of the report, obtains clarifications/additional information, if required, from the
AO/ACO/Assessors. The case is then put before the accreditation committee by the NABET secretariat for its
consideration, review and decision on accreditation. The final outcome is thereafter uploaded on QCI/NABET
website http://nabet.qci.org.in/ accreditation becomes effective from the last date of the office assessment.

 4.3 Time frame for application and accreditation processes
Completion of application, assessment and accreditation processes depends on the following:

a. Receipt of complete information at NABET for Stage I and II assessments along with necessary
documents and closure action of NCs/Obs., as applicable, for IA, SA and RA applications.

b. Timely submissions of such information by AO/ACO within the time frame stipulated by NABET vide
section 10 for SA and RA. For initial accreditation AOs are requested to submit the required details as
early as possible.

 c. Timely raising of queries by NABET within 15 days for Stage I and 1 month for Stage II.

 Subject to the above, all efforts are made by NABET to complete the process of granting accreditation within
3 months of submission of complete information by AO/ACO.

 4.4 Accreditation process outcome
The salient outcomes from accreditation process are as follows:

a. Accredited — in case the applicant clears the assessment and accreditation processes successfully, the
result is posted on the QCI/NABET website and the AO/ACO is also informed separately.

b. Not approved — if the AO/ACO fails to obtain 40% marks in the office assessment or does not fulfil
any other requirements of the Scheme, the application is not approved and accreditation is not granted.

ec. Cancellation - in case an ACO does not fulfil conditions of accreditation or does not submit complete
application for SA or RA in time, a reminder is given to do the same in the next 15 days. If complete
application is not submitted even after 15 days, a final notice is served for responding giving another 15
days’ time.

 In the event of non-compliance after the final notice as well, the accreditation granted to the ACO is cancelled
and its’ name is removed from the list of accredited consultants. In case it wishes to get considered again
under the Scheme, it is required to submit a fresh application with requisite fee. Fresh assessment is then
carried out as per [A norms
[art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

d. Incomplete applications — If an AO submits an incomplete application in which requisite details are
not provided or it does not meet the requirements of the Scheme in respect of eligible candidates for
Project Coordinator (PC) and Technical Area Expert (TAE), QMS, Laboratory details etc., the same is
put in the ‘incomplete applications’ list. NABET intimates the AO of the deficiencies in the application.
 If it is an application for IA, the same is processed further once all requirements are fulfilled.

 45 Category of accredited consultants

Prospecting and Mining Plan Preparation Agency/ organizations are granted accreditation in categories ‘A’ or ‘B.
Experts are also approved in categories A or B under this Scheme.

 If an approved category-A expert scores less than 50% marks in SA, s/he is issued an alert and her/his approval
status may be changed to Category-B. A category-B expert is upgraded to category-A if -

a. S/he meets the experience requirements stated in the Scheme/has addressed the shortfalls of earlier
assessment in the re-application

b. — Scores 60% or more in SA/RA/Supplementary Assessment and

c. | Recommended for up-gradation by the assessors on fulfilment of point a, b above and final decision of
Accreditation Committee.

 5.0 GRANT OF ACCREDITATION

Results of the accreditation committee meeting are uploaded on the QCI/NABET website within a month of the
AC meeting in which the relevant case is discussed. A formal letter from NABET is sent within one month from
the date of approval by the accreditation committee mentioning the approved sectors with category, experts
approved with category, detailed conditions of accreditation and NCs & Obs. , if any. NABET’s certificate of
accreditation is issued on successful closure of all NCs and Obs.

 5.1 Maintaining Accreditation

Accreditation of Prospecting and Mining Plan Preparation Agency is subject to compliance to the requirements of
the QCI — NABET Scheme. These include, but are not limited to:

a. Implementation of systems/procedures documented in the QMS manual of the ACO including the
corrective and preventive actions for the NCs and Obs. of IA, SA, RA, as applicable.

b. ACOs are encouraged to prepare their own ‘Report preparation manual’ detailing the procedures
followed right from the time of placing quotes for the work to completion of the project.

 c. Timely replacement of experts - in case any approved PC or TAE leaves the ACO, s/he needs to be
replaced with in a specific time.

 d. —_Intimation of changes — in case of any change in the organization related to systems, procedures,
laboratory and other facilities, the same is to be intimated to NABET in the within one month.

 e. | Payment of fees, as applicable, to NABET as per the terms of accreditation.

 f. At the beginning of the reports prepared by the ACO a declaration is to be given by the ACO
mentioning the names of the PC and TAEs involved. This form must be duly signed by them and
countersigned by the CEO of the organization.

 g. Familiarity with the site conditions is a fundamental requirement, concerned PC and relevant TAEs are
expected to visit the site for appropriate duration prior to commencing the work as well as during the
period of primary data collection and for ground validation of secondary data.

 h. All PCs and TAEs and team members involved in the project should maintain a field logbook with
noting done at the site. NABET’s assessors may verify these during the office assessment. It is
worthwhile to maintain other documentations on the expert’s site visits viz., expert’s report, and
authorization of tours, travel documents etc.

 i. The ACO is to strictly avoid practices/actions mentioned in Section 5.3 to ensure that accreditation
granted to it is not cancelled.
 j. The ACO is to maintain the following records (in soft or hard format)
 i. A register of attendance of employees involved in project.
ii. Names of the experts (both in-house and empanelled) involved in projects handled by the consultant

organization.
 80 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

iii. Details of involvement of empanelled experts, in terms of time devoted to various projects.
 iv. Updated declaration of empanelled experts indicating the number of organizations they are
associated with.
 v. All documents related to laboratory work and implementation of QMS
5.2 Changes after accreditation

Since accreditation of a consultant organization is based on the experts approved, an ACO must inform NABET if
an approved expert leaves the organization and propose a replacement in accordance of the Scheme’s
requirements within one month. NABET would arrange assessment of such candidate/s either during the next
assessment due or earlier. Failing to propose a replacement on time is a non-conformance, viewed seriously and
may also result in cancellation of accreditation.

 A new candidate may be proposed as a PC or a TAE for assessment at any time. However, for a person already
assessed and not approved may be proposed only after a gap of 3 months enabling her/him to address the shortfall.

 5.3 Suspension/cancellation/debarment of accreditation

NABET may suspend or cancel an accreditation or even debar an organization on account of any or more grounds
during accreditation process or after, but not limited, to the following:

a. Non-compliance or violation of the NABET’s re quirements and conditions of accreditation and deviation
from facts as stated in application and enclosures

b. In case an approved expert leaves the organization, the ACO is required to inform NABET of the same
within one month and get a replacement approved within the next two months.

 c. Submission of false or misleading information in the application or in subsequent submissions

d. Improper use of NABET’s accreditation mark, letter of accreditation from NABET or the QCI/NABET
logo

e. Carrying out changes in Project coordinators/experts without NABET’s approval
f. Failure to report any major legal (mandatory compliance) changes and evident conflict of interest

g. Using fraudulent practices by the ACO in respect of its submission/interaction with NABET which
include, but not limited to, deliberate concealment and/or submission of false or misleading information,
suppression of information, falsification of records or data, unauthorized use of accreditation.

 h. Violation of the Code of Conduct for the consultant organizations.

 i. Any other condition deemed appropriate by NABET.

 The decision for the suspension/cancellation/debarment is taken by the NABET accreditation committee.
 A clarification may be sought and put up to the accreditation committee for final decision on the matter.
 5.4 Actions for misconduct/fraudulent activities

Submission of false or misleading information or use of fraudulent practices, an AO/ACO may be disqualified for
up to one year, to be decided by the accreditation committee depending on the seriousness of the action. Such
AO/ACO will be able to re-apply only after expiry of the disqualification period. The application is to be
accompanied with an undertaking from the CEO of the organization that, if such practices are repeated, it will
render the organization ineligible to participate in the NABET accreditation scheme any further. The same
approach is applicable for individual experts (PCs and TAEs) as well.

 5.5 Confidentiality

All information, documents and reports submitted by an AO/ACO to NABET are utilized by the NABET,
assessors, members of accreditation and technical committees for the purpose of assessment and accreditation.
 These may also be shared with MoC, Govt. of India and other members of the International Personnel
Certification Association. However, the identity of the accredited consultant organizations would be masked for
sensitive information related to business whenever it is called for/appropriate. In case an AO/ACO wants the
information to be kept confidential, a communication must be sent to NABET citing reasons for the same.
 NABET reserves the right to take appropriate decision in this regard. NABET also reserves the right of taking
appropriate action against an ACO for deliberate breach of confidentiality.

 The ACO is required to have adequate arrangements consistent with applicable laws to safeguard confidentiality
of all information provided by its clients. These arrangements are extended to include organizations or individuals
acting on its behalf and as its representatives.
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA 81

6.0 GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL MECHANISM

There are two methodologies available under the Scheme for addressing the grievances of AOs and ACOs—
a. Review of Decisions
b. — Appeal

6.1 Review of decisions

 In case an AO/ACO wishes for review/reconsideration of any decision taken by NABET, they may send a request
for same to NABET.

 The following procedure is applicable:
a. Request received from AO/ACO by NABET is recorded in the same serial as date of receipt

b. Request must mention specific complaints (not generic in nature) and supported by documentary
evidence.

 Anonymous/ pseudonymous requests are not be entertained.

 d. Only substantial errors/mistakes on procedural matters are taken up for consideration. Re-assessment of
any aspect of assessment or request for deviation from the Scheme cannot be considered.

 e. Such ‘Reviews’ are taken up for consideration in a meeting of the relevant Accreditation Committee as
early as possible.

 f. Agenda of such meetings is intimated to the AO/ACO.

 g- AOs/ACOs making the request may present their case in person to the AC, if they so desire.

 h. Decision of the AC is intimated to the concerned organizations as well as posted on QCI website.
 6.2 Appeal
An AO/ ACO may apply for Appeal in case it is not satisfied with the ‘Review’ decision.

 An ‘Appeal’ must include the specific issues on which the appellant is filing the appeal accompanied by
supporting documents, fees for appeal. The following information is to be provided while submitting the appeal -

Sp ecific Supporting Decision of | Additional/ new | New supporting
issue/s documents . iq . .
 SLNo. . . . . | Review issues submitted in | documents added
submitted in | submitted in .
 Committee Appeal now now

Review Review

1 7 7 7 7

The Following procedure is applicable:

i. Formation of 3-member Appeals Committee by NABET, chaired by a member of NABET Board and
comprising one more member from NABET Board and one subject specialist.

ii. The Appeals Committee proposed is approved by the Chairman, NABET Board.

 iii. The documents received from the appellant are submitted to the members of the Appeals committee by
NABET Secretariat.

 iv. Process of hearing by the committee - the committee fixes a date for the hearing which is intimated to the
appellant by NABET secretariat. A reasonable notice period is given for the appellant to appear in the
hearing. The committee gives due opportunity to the appellant and the NABET secretariat to present their
cases. The committee gives its decision after hearing both the sides and based on deliberation within it.

 v. The decision of the Appeals committee is intimated to the appellant by NABET Secretariat.
 7.0 CODE OF CONDUCT

All ACOs are obliged to improve the standing of the consultancy profession by rigorously observing the Code of
Conduct. Failure to do so may result in the suspension or cancellation of accreditation.

 7A Use of QCI and NABET logo

a. The QCI and NABET accreditation logo is the property of NABET and its use is controlled. Compliance to the
guidelines and conditions is required for using NABET Accreditation Mark
82 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

1. Whenever a Prospecting and Mining Plan Preparing Agency is accredited, NABET shall inform the
relevant entity about the conditions of the use of accreditation mark.

ii. Accreditation mark can be used by NABET accredited consultant organizations only.
 b. Guidelines and conditions of use of accreditation mark
i. Accreditation mark as appears on NABET Accreditation certificates can be printed as coloured image

or black and white

ii. Accreditation mark shall not be used to suggest any approval or sponsorship of NABET other than the
organization accredited.

 iii. Accreditation mark shall not be used in any way that misleads the reader about the accreditation status
of the consultant organization

iv. Accreditation mark is not transferable and is to be used only by the accredited consultant organization
as described in its application.

 v. Accredited consultant organization upon suspension or withdrawal or expiry of its accreditation
(however determined), shall discontinue the use of NABET accreditation mark on all media of
communications by the organization including promotional material, letter head, newsletters, brochures,
annual reports, business cards, websites and advertisements etc.

vi. NABET reserves the right to change the conditions as and when considered necessary and the same
shall be communicated to consultant organization.

 vii. Use of accreditation mark is applicable for consultant organizations only and not for individual expert/s.

c. Verification

a. | NABET may, at its discretion, carry out verification of proper use of the accreditation Mark.

b. If any misuse of the accreditation is noticed, NABET initiates actions as per procedure for suspension
and/or cancellation of its accreditation.

 7.2 Undertaking by consultant organization
The consultant organization undertakes to:
a. Act professionally, accurately and in an unbiased manner.
 b. Be truthful, accurate and fair to the assigned work, without any fear or favour.

 c.  Judiciously use the information provided by or acquired from the client in carrying out the project and
to maintain the confidentiality of information received or acquired in connection with the assignment.

 d. Use the expertise of only approved experts of relevant category in the preparation of Mining Plan/
Geological Reports.

 e. Avoid and/or declare any conflict of interest that may affect the work to be carried out.
 f. Not accept any favour from the clients, or their representatives.

 g. Not act in a manner detrimental to the reputation of any of the stakeholders including NABET and the
client.

 h. — Co-operate fully in any formal enquiry procedure of NABET.

 zy

Prior to accreditation, the AO signs the “Code of Conduct for Prospecting and Mining Plan Preparing Agency’
and sends it to the NABET secretariat.”

 [F. No. 34011/28/2019-CPAM]
BHABANI PRASAD PATI, Jt. Secy.

 Note:- The principal rules were published in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (i) vide number
G.S.R.1398, dated the 26th November, 1960 and lastly amended vide number G.S.R. 710(E), dated the 8th
October, 2014.

Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054. ALOK KUMAR Bitzsignstoy oxo,
tart de Ste weie—(TA)04/0007/2003—20 REGISTERED NO. DL—(N)04/0007/2003—20

JIRNd «a Usa
The Gazette of Gudia

asi. -S1.Vet.-3.-10012020-215322
CG-DL-E-10012020-215322

FATA T
EXTRAORDINARY
aw WI— ers 1
PART II — Section 1
wiferear & wentfera
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

we 1) ae facet, awa, wat 10, 2020/45 20, 1941 (ae)
 No. 1] NEW DELHI, FRIDAY, JANUARY 10, 2020/PAUSHA 20, 1941 (SAKA)

 Fa amt 4 fr Gs Gen wae @ fara fee ae Sem Gael H eT A Ta Tae

Separate paging is given to this Part in order that it may be filed as a separate compilation.

 MINISTRY OF LAW AND JUSTICE
(Legislative Department)

New Delhi, the 10th January, 2020/Pausha 20, 1941 (Saka)

 THE MINERAL LAWS (AMENDMENT)
ORDINANCE, 2020
No. | oF 2020
Promulgated by the President in the seventieth year of
the Republic of India.

 An Ordinance further to amend the Mines and
Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 and to
amend the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015.

 WHEREAS Parliament is not in session and the
President is satisfied that circumstances exist which
render it necessary for him to take immediate action;

Now, THEREFORE, in exercise of the powers conferred
by clause (1) of article 123 of the Constitution, the
President is pleased to promulgate the following
Ordinance:—
Short title and
commencement.

 Insertion of new
section 4B.

Conditions for
efficiency in
production.

 Amendment of
section 5.

 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Parr II—

CHAPTER |
PRELIMINARY

1. (1) This Ordinance may be called the Mineral Laws
(Amendment) Ordinance, 2020.

 (2) It shall come into force at once.
 CHAPTER If

AMENDMENTS TO THE MINES AND MINERALS
(DEVELOPMENT AND REGULATION) ACT, 1957.

 2. In the Mines and Minerals (Development and
Regulation) Act, 1957 (hereafter in this Chapter referred
to as the principal Act}, after section 4A, the following
section shall be inserted, namety:—

“4B. Notwithstanding anything contained in section
4A, the Central Government may, in the  interest of
maintaining sustained production of minerals in the
country, prescribe such conditions as may be
necessary for commencement and continuation of
production by the holders of mining leases who have
acquired rights, approvals, clearances and the like
under section 8B.”.

 3. In section 5 of the principal Act, in sub-section (1),
after the proviso, the following proviso shall be inserted,
namely:—

“Provided further that the previous approval of the
Central Government shall not be required for grant of
reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining
lease in respect of the minerals specified in Part A of the
First Schedule, where,—

(i) an allocation order has been issued by the
Central Government under section 11A; or

(ii) a notification of reservation of area has been
issued by the Central Government or the State
Government under sub-section (1A) or sub-section (2)
of section 17A, or

67 of 1957.
 Sec. 1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 3

(iii) a vesting order or an allotment order has been
issued by the Central Government under the provisions
11 of 2015. of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015.”.

 4. In section 8A of the principal Act, in sub-section Amendment of
(4), the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:— Section 8A.

“Provided that nothing contained in this section shall
prevent the State Governments from taking an advance
action for auction of the mining lease before the expiry of
the lease period.”.

 5. After section 8A of the principal Act, the following Insertion of
section shall be inserted, namely:— i section
“8B. (1) The provisions of this section shall apply Provisions for
to minerals, other than the minerals specified in Part A tansfer of

. statutory
and Part B of the First Schedule. clearances.

 (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in this
Act or any other law for the time being in force, the
successful bidder of mining leases expiring under the
provisions of sub-sections (5) and (6) of section 8A
and selected through auction as per the procedure
provided under this Act and the rules made thereunder,
shall be deemed to have acquired all valid rights,
approvals, clearances, licences and the like vested with
the previous lessee for a period of two years:

Provided that subject to such conditions as may be
prescribed, such new lessee shall apply and obtain all
necessary rights, approvals, clearances, licences and
the like within a period of two years from the date of
grant of new lease.

 (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in any
other law for the time being in force, it shall be lawful
for the new lessee to continue mining operations on the
land, in which mining operations were being carried
out by the previous lessee, for a period of two years
from the date of commencement of the new lease.”

 6. In section LOC of the principal Act, in sub-section Amendment of
(2), the following shall be inserted, namely:— section 10C.
4 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Parr II—

“Provided that the hoider of non-exclusive
reconnaissance permit who carries out the prescribed
level of exploration in respect of deep seated minerals or
such minerals as may be notified by the Central
Government, may submit an application to the State
Government for the grant of any prospecting licence-cum-
mining lease as per the procedure laid down under section
11 or a mining jease as per the procedure laid down under
section 0B and with a view to increase the
reconnaissance and prospecting operations of such
minerals, the Central Government shal] prescribe such
procedure, including the bidding parameters for selection
of such holders.

 Explanation-—For the purposes of this sub-section,
the expression “deep seated minerals” means such
minerals which occur at a depth of more than three
hundred meters from the surface of land with poor surface
manifestations.”.

 Amendment of 7. In section 11A of the principal Act,—
section LIA.

Gi) in the marginal heading, after the words “or
mining lease”, the words “or prospecting licence-cum-
mining lease in respect of coal or lignite’ shall be
inserted;

(ii) in sub-section (1}—

(a) in the opening portion, for the words “in
respect of an area containing coal or lignite”, the
words “or prospecting licence-cum-mining lease in
respect of coal or lignite” shall be substituted;

(b) for the long fine, the following long line shall
be substituted, namely:-—-

“to carry on coal or lignite reconnaissance or prospecting
or mining operations, for own consumption, sale or for
any other purpose as may be determined by the Central
Government”;

(c) the following proviso shall be inserted,
namely :—
Sec. 1]

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY

“Provided that the auction by competitive
bidding under this section shall not be applicable
to coal or lignite—

(a) where such area is considered for
allotment to a Government company or
corporation or a joint venture company
formed by such company or corporation or
between the Central Government or the State
Government, as the case may be, for own
consumption, sale or for any other purpose as
may be determined by the Central
Government;

(b) where such area is considered for
allotment to a company or corporation that
has been awarded a power project on the basis
of competitive bid for tariff (including Ultra
Mega Power Projects).”;

(iii) in sub-section (3),—

(a) after the words “mining lease”, the words “‘or
prospecting licence-cum-mining lease” shall be
inserted;

(b) for the words “competitive bidding or
otherwise”, the words “competitive bidding or
through allotment” shall be substituted.

 8. In section 13 of the principal Act, in sub-section

(2),—

(i) after clause (a), the following clauses shall be
inserted, namel y:—

(aa) the conditions as may be necessary for
commencement and continuation of production by
the holders of mining leases, under section 4B;

(ab) the conditions to be fulfilled by the new
lessee for obtaining all necessary rights, approvals,
clearances, licences and the like under the proviso
to sub-section (2) of section 8B;

(ac) the level of exploration in respect of deep
seated minerals or such minerals and the procedure,

Amendment of
section 13.
 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Parr II—

Amendment of
section 17A.

Amendment of
section 4.

including the bidding parameters for selection of
the holders under the proviso to sub-section (2) of
section 10C;

(ii) for clause (d), the following clauses shall be
substituted, namely:—

(d) the terms, conditions and process of
auction by competitive bidding and allotment in
respect of coal or lignite;

(da) the regulation of grant of reconnaissance
permit, prospecting ficence, mining lease or
prospecting ficence-cum-mining ease in respect of
coal or lignite;

(db} the details of mines and their location, the
minimum size of such mines and such other
conditions which may be necessary for the purpose
of coal or lignite reconnaissance, prospecting or
mining operations;

(de) utilisation of coal or lignite including
mining for sale by a company;".

 9. In section 17A of the principal Act, in sub-section
(2A), in the proviso, the words and letter "Part A and"
shall be omitted.

 CHAPTER Il

AMENDMENTS TO THE COAL MINES (SPECIAL
PROVISIONS) ACT, 2015

10. In section 4 of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions)
Act, 2015 (hereafter in this Chapter referred to as the
principal Act),—

(i) in sub-section (2),—

(a) in the opening portion, for the words “in respect
of any area containing coal”, the words “or
prospecting licence-cum-mining lease in respect of
coal” shall be substituted;

(b) for the long line, the following long line shall
be substituted, namely:—

if of 2015.
 Sec. 1]

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 7

“to carry on coal reconnaissance or prospecting or
mining operations, for own consumption, sale or for
any other purpose as may be determined by the Central
Government, and the State Government shall grant
such reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence,
mining lease or prospecting licence-cum-mining lease
in respect of Schedule I coal mine to such company as
selected through auction by competitive bidding under
this section.”;

(ii) sub-section (3) shall be omitted.

 11. In section 5 of the principal Act, in sub-section

(),—

(i) for the words, brackets and figures “sub-
sections (1) and (3)”, the words, brackets and figures
“sub-sections (1) and (2)” shall be substituted;

(ii) for the words “or mining lease in respect of
any area containing coal”, the words “,mining lease or
prospecting licence-cum-mining lease in respect of
such Schedule { coal mine” shal! be substituted;

(iit) in the first proviso, for the words “in
accordance with the permit, prospecting licence or
mining lease, as the case may be”, the words “as may
be determined by the Central Government” shall be
substituted.

 12. In section 8 of the principal Act,—

(i) in sub-section (4), in clause (d), for the words “a
mining lease”, the words, “prospecting licence,
mining lease or prospecting licence-cum-mining lease,
as the case may be” shall be substituted;

(ii) in sub-section (8), for the words “a prospecting
licence or a mining lease”, the words, “prospecting
licence, mining lease or prospecting licence-cum-
mining lease” shall be substituted;

(iii) in sub-section (9), for the words “a prospecting
licence or a mining lease”, the words, “prospecting
licence, mining lease or prospecting licence-cum-
mining lease” shall be substituted;

Amendment of
section 5.

 Amendment of
section 8.
 Amendment of
section 9.

 Amendment of
section 18,

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Parr II—

(iv) after sub-section (12), the following sub-
sections shall be inserted, namely:—

“(13) The vesting order or allotment order may
be terminated by the nominated authority in such
manner as may be prescribed.

 (14) Upon termination of vesting order or
allotment order, the nominated authority may
auction the coal mine under section 4 or allot the
coal mine under section 5 as may be determined by
the Central Government.

 (15) The successful bidder or allottee of the
coal mine whose vesting order or allotment order
has been terminated shall be deemed to be the prior
allottee for the purposes of immediate next auction
or allotment of the said coal mine.”.

 13. In section 9 of the principal Act,—

Gi) in the opening portion, for the portion
beginning with the words “The proceeds arising out of
land” and ending with the words “as may be
prescribed.”, the following shall be substituted,
namely:-——

“The compensation for land and mine
infrastructure in relation to a Schedule | coal mine
as valued in accordance with section 16 shall be
deposited by the successful bidder or allottee with
the nominated authority and shall be disbursed
maintaining, inter alia, the following priority of
payments and in accordance with the relevant laws
and such rules as may be prescribed—”;

(ii) in clause (b), for the words “compensation
payable”, the words “amount payable” shall be
substituted.”.

 14. In section 18 of the principal Act, in sub-section
(1), for the words and figure “allotment of Schedule 1 coal
mines is not complete”, the words and figures “allotment
of Schedule I coal mines is not complete, or vesting
order or allotment order issued under this Act has been
Sec. 1]

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY

terminated in case of a coal mine under production,” shall
be substituted.

 15. In section 20 of the principal Act,—

(i) in sub-section (1), for the words “A successful

bidder or allottee or coal linkage holder shall”, the
words “A successful bidder or allottee shall” shall be
substituted;

(ii) for sub-section (2), the following sub-section

shall be substituted, namely:—

“(2) A successful bidder or allottee may also
use the coal, mined from a particular Schedule |
coal mine, in any of its plants or plant of its
subsidiary or holding company engaged in same
specified end-uses in such manner as may be
prescribed.”.

 16. In section 31 of the principal Act, in sub-section

(2),—

(i) in clause (b), for the words “prospecting
licence or mining lease”, the words “prospecting
licence, mining lease or prospecting licence-cum-
mining lease” shall be substituted; :

(ii) after clause (1), the following clause shall be
inserted, namely:—

“(la) the manner of termination of vesting
order or allotment order under sub-section (13)
of section 8;”.

 Amendment of
section 20.

 Amendment of
section 31.

 RAM NATH KOVIND,
President.

 DR. G. NARAYANA RAJU,
Secretary to the Govt. of India.

 UPLOADED BY THE MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, MINTO ROAD, NEW DELHI-110002
AND PUBLISHED BY THE CONTROLLER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI-110054.

 MGIPMRND—4632GI—10-01-2020.

ref &. At-ust- 33004/99 REGD. No. D. L.-33004/99

Che Gazette of India

aloft. -S1.Ve.-31.-01062020-219668
CG-DL-E-01062020-219668

Aaa
EXTRAORDINARY
art [—ave 3—34-@ve (ii)
PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (ii)
siferare & weariaret
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

a. 1524] ag favetl, qHarc, TE 29, 2020/sas5 8, 1942
No. 1524] NEW DELHI, FRIDAY, MAY 29, 2020/JYAISTHA 8, 1942
RAAT HATA

as feeeft, 29 HE, 2020

FLAT. 1694(a1). hala AHIR, GTA aire ate (frat site fara) atferfaerr,1957 (1957 ar
67) #t art 26 Ft Sr-arer (1) % AVS () ST Yao hat HT waNT Hed EU site area F UTI,
AMAT, AT 2, FS 3, SI-AS (11) H HLA. AeA 2265 (a.) aS 4 FA, 2018 F art warfaa ared
ear, Brae Hares AT alse, Sa arat Hare afeata wed eu Kreg OS ater & os Pea var
 SAT HA HT AT Far WAT S, Aes freer adh Sf P:-

1(m) Sa afer & cerert Ft aretha & car ahist Rare (Aetteat) Fraa, 2020 ary ett Tara 9
Hey AT eatesy AAT St ATT TH BTA TAT erase At aah sahtrat Tar a aS FH few Ma GT SI ST
ASAT BT Aaa Sa eh fore aafatrars Ft aver 5 AY Sa ae 2-H SS (A) H Tat Hats AHI SRT WANT
FY oT tat orfewat ar Warmer TRAST ASHI, BTA HATS sre At Pea STAT

(@) afast Parad (etter) FH, 2020 F any SIA & At Are AT seat SATA St STH Tea a Mt HAT
car ferarge Ft aah vent car ta were & few, Va GAT Sa, SAT ATT HT Aqated aa H fru afatraay
FY are 5 AT Sq-aret (2) F AS (GB) H als Has ATH ST WANT Ft GT Tet orkewat Hr WarHeT BTA
Pere, arernray (Hara Fatah ASA, ATCT ATH, BAT HATAe aT eH eeltrer Haters) sree At aT
STU

2313 GI/2020 (1)
2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part II—SEC. 3(ii)]

2. sa afer & wearers At aera weara & St sae aA ee afeerh art aaa ANAT ase
feu ae Peet sft areer azar Freer & aaa aa et Pew ae ares srerat Haters Peart a pattern & fore
ara, Bea HATA, AIT AHS FY AAS AL AT ZI

[t. Hf. 34011/28/2019-4ritrra]
wart vars of aa aR

MINISTRY OF COAL
NOTIFICATION
New Delhi, the 29th May, 2020

S.O. 1694(E).—In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 26 of the
Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957) and in supersession of the notifications of
the Government of India, Ministry of Coal published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3, Sub-
section (ii) vide number S.0.2265 (E), dated the 4th June, 2018, except as respects things done or omitted to be done
before such supersession, the Central Government hereby directs that,—

1.(a) on and from the date of publication of this notification and upto the expiry of a period of nine months from
the commencement of the Mineral Concession (Amendment) Rules, 2020, the power to approve mining
plan for all categories of coal and lignite and sand mining for stowing, exercisable by the Central
Government under clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 5 of the Act, shall also be exercisable by the
Project Adviser, Ministry of Coal;

(b) on and from the expiry of aperiod of nine months from the commencement of the Mineral Concession
(Amendment) Rules, 2020, the power to approve mining planfor all categories of coal and lignite and sand
mining for stowing, exercisable by the Central Government under clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 5
of the Act, shall also be exercisable by the Coal Controller, Kolkata, (Coal Controller’s Organization being
a subordinate office of the Government of India in the Ministry of Coal).

 2. On and from the date of publication of this notification, any person aggrieved by any orders made or directions
issued in respect of mining plan by an officer designated above may, apply to Secretary to Government of
India, Ministry of Coal, for revision of such order made or directions issued thereon.

 [F. No. 34011/28/2019-CPAM]
BHABANI PRASAD PATI, Jt. Secy.

Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054. ALOK KUMAR 2iststygzedby stoceuan

t: 20200601 20:17:45 40530

Most Immediate

No. 13016/9/2014-CA-III
Government of India
Ministry of Coal

' Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi,
Dated the 26% December, 2014

ORDER

Subject:- Methodology for fixing Floor/Reserve Price for Auction and
Allotment of Coal Mines/Blocks. ;

In accordance with the provisions of Rule 8(3) of the Coal Mines
(Special Provisions), Rules, 2014 and Section 8(5) of the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions), Ordinance, 2014 the Government is pleased to approve the
Methodology for fixing Floor/Reserve Price for Auction and Allotment of Coal

Mines/Blocks as mentioned below:-

METHODGLOGY FOR FIXING FLOOR/RESERVE PRICE

1. For fixing floor price for Auction for sectors like Steel, Sponge iron,
Cement, Captive Power etc.:

The Intrinsic Value of the coal block will be calculated by computing its
Net Present Value (NPV), based on Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) method. The
10 % of this intrinsic value will be payable upfront in 3 installments of 5%,
2.5% and 2.5% as prescribed in the bidding document. The final NPV (after
subtracting the upfront payment received from the bidder) will then be
annuitized to. become equal to a unit ratio in terms of Rs/tonne (viz. floor
price). In this case for calculation of intrinsic value, it is proposed that, the
extant notified price of CIL (price of domestic coal) for the non-regulated
sectors for the corresponding GCV bands will be taken into account for
computing NPV. However, floor price shall not be less than Rs. 150/- per
tonne. The resultant bid price (Rs/tonne) shall be considered as base for the
year of bidding with yearly escalation linked to the WPI. The statutory royalty
payable on coal will continue to be governed as per extant rules.

 2. For fixing Reserve Price for coal mines /blocks to be allotted for
power projects to be set up in future on tariff based bidding (Case-2) and

3. For fixing Reserve Price for coal mines/blocks to be allotted to the
Government Companies for specified end-uses :

A fixed Reserve Price of Rs.100/- per tonne of coal shall be payable, as

per actual production by the successful allottee. The statutory royalty payable
we 2/-

&

-2-

on coal,will continue to be governed as per extant rules. This-would ensure
that there is no adverse impact on power tariff. The successful allottee shall
have to pay upfront payment, as may be prescribed in the tender/allotment
document. There is no bidding on coal under these two categories. The
‘Reserve Price’ may be escalated using a pre-determined formula that is
prescribed in now prevailing Standard Bidding Documents for Case-1 bidding
as formulated by Ministry of Power for escalation of fuel cost from captive
mines. However, for existing generation capacity contracted through tariff bid
based PPAs (Case-2), arranging fuel is the responsibility of power procurer.
 Such Case-2 projects shall not be eligible to participate in the auction process
for the coal blocks.

 4. . For fixing the ceiling price for coal mines/blocks to be auctioned
for generation capacity having cost plus PPAs or for generation capacity
having tariff bid based PPAs (Case-1)/generation capacity to be
contracted through cost plus PPAs or through tariff bid based PPAs

(Case-1) in future :
a. A Ceiling Price of CIL Notified price for cach coal block -will be
fixed and the bidders will be mandated to quote lower than this Ceiling
Price. The Ceiling price shall be fixed at Run-of-Mine {ROM) price of
equivalent grade, as specified by CIL for the power sector. The bidder
quoting the lowest will be the successful bidder. This will be taken for
ransfer price to the plant from the coal block. The resultant bid price
of coal will be escalable in line with a pre-specified escalation formula
for the purpose of considering the energy charge. This method will
ensure that the benefit of lower bid price is passed through to the

consumers.’

b. The bid price of coal shall be considered as base for the year of
bidding and it shall be escalable with pre-determined formula that is
prescribed in now prevailing Standard Bidding Document for Case-1
bidding as formulated by MoP, for escalation of fuel cost from captive

mines.

 c. A fixed Reserve Price of Rs.100/- per tonne of coal shall be
payable, as per actual production by the successful allocattee. The
statutory royalty payable on coal will continue to be governed as per
extant rules i.e. at the CIL notified price. Similarly, the reserve price
may also be escalable using the same formula as in ‘b’ above.

 d. The successful allottee shall have to make upfront payment @ 10

% of the intrinsic value of the coal block in 3 installments of 5%, 2.5%
and 2.5%, as prescribed in the bidding document. . [

“ ....3/-

€.

-3-

To ensure that, the benefit of coal is passed on to ‘the consumers,

the following conditions has been prescribed:

f.

I. For generation capacity having cost plus PPAs or
generation capacity to be contracted through cost plus PPAs
in future — For the purpose of determining the fuel cost for cost

_ plus PPAs, the Appropriate Commission will allow bid price of

coal along with subsequent escalation as provided in coal block
bid document as being equivalent to the Run of Mine (ROM) cost
of coal together with other allowable expenses and levies,
provided that it shall not lead to higher energy charge throughout
the tenure of PPA than that which would have been obtained as
per the terms and conditions of the existing PPA. -

II. For the generation capacity contracted through tariff
bid based PPAs (Case-1) — The Appropriate Commission ‘shall
review the quoted energy charge keeping in view that the actual
bid price of coal along with subsequent escalation as provided in

coal block bid document as being equivalent to Run of Minc

(ROM) cost of coal alongwith statutory levies and other
permissible components of energy charge, provided that such
revision shall not lead to higher energy charge throughout the
tenure of PPA than that which would have been obtained as per
the terms and conditions of the existing PPA. For this purpose,
the allocation of coal block under the new provisions shall be
treated as “Change in Law” to enable the Appropriate Commission
to revise the tariff downwards in accordance with the provisions

of PPA.

Ill. For the generation capacity to be contracted through
tariff bid based PPAs (Case-1) in future - The Appropriate
Commission shall while adopting the tariff under Section 63 of
the Electricity Act, 2003, ensure that the energy charge is derived
based on the actual bid price of coal along with subsequent
escalation as provided in coal block bid document as being
equivalent to Run of Mine (ROM) cost of coal alongwith statutory
levies and other permissible components of energy charge.

 Iv. For this purpose Ministry of Power will make suitable
provisions in the Tariff policy and/or in the bidding
guidelines issued under the Electricity Act, 2003.

 For power plant having uncontracted capacity, the bidder shall be

mandated to cap its merchant capacity at 15 % of the generating

d 4 /-

—
-4-

capacity linked to the allotted coal block for sale of power outside
medium and long term PPAs contracted under Section 62 or Section 63
of the Electricity Act, 2003. Further the bidder shall have to pay an
additional reserve price for the quantum of coal used for power sold in
the merchant market. The additional reserve price for coal used for
merchant sale of power shall be based on intrinsic value of the coal
block annuitized over the yearly production in Rs/tonne terms. The
intrinsic value can be arrived at with the existing approved methodology
for steel/sponge iron/cement sectors/captive power. The additional
Reserve Price shall not be less than Rs. 150/- per tonne. Further the
resultant additional reserve price (Rs/tonne) shall be considered as
base for the year of bidding with yearly escalation linked to the WPI.

 5. Any further revision of CIL price after the bid due date would not have
any impact on the bid price of the blocks already bid as escalation on that
price has already heen provided for in para 4.(b) above. For future bidding of
coal blocks, the then prevailing CIL price will be considered for determining

ceiling price.
 6. For auction/allotment of coal blocks for the purpose of sale of coal as
provided in Section 4{2) of the Coal Mines (Special Provision) Ordinance,
2014, a separate methodology will be formulated. ,

This issues with the approval of Competent Authority.

 (S.K. SHAHI)
Director
Ph.23382807

Nominated Authority,
Ministry of Coal

Copy tg
“TD (NIC) - with the request to upload on the website of Ministry of Coal

Cast Fo To WeIo-33004/99 REGD. NO. D.L.-33004/99

Che Gazette of India

EXTRAORDINARY
am Il—avgs 3—s30-wgve (ii)
PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (ii)

wire A wentfora
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

a. 650) ae feocit, wera, are 27, 2015/aa 6, 1937
No. 650] NEW DELHI, FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 2015/CHAITRA 6, 1937
alae Ware MINISTRY OF COAL
afergert NOTIFICATION
ag feeeit, 27 HT, 2015 New Delhi, the 27th March, 2015
ALS, 871(31). — alent Gr (fasts sada) feta S.O. 871(E).—In exercise of the powers conferred

APA, 2014 (2014 B17) Bt IMT 18 Ht STAT (1) EAI by sub-section (1) of section 18 of the Coal Mines (Special
gaa ube a wan ae x $e TER, aaa, Aa Provisions) Seccond Ordinance, 2014 (7 of 2014), the Central

5 a 5 anes. x x . Government hereby appoints Chairman, Coal India Ltd. as
SST Tel, HT ATS LRT EMAL IAA AMT ch ASAT a designated custodian to manage and operate the following

ak Fae & fag veifia ifar faze att & Schedule-I coal mines, namely:—
1. ARAL ATS I (FSR) ; 1. Marki Mangli-I (Maharashtra);
2. Feat ATeit- I (ASRTE) ; ak 2. Marki Mangli-II (Maharashtra); and
3. Aafeeh ATS (SPRATT WRT) | 3. Namchik Namphuk (Arunachal Pradesh).
 [WL @ 13016/2/2015-Se-1I J [F.No. 13016/2/2015-CA-IID)]

ae) VIVEK BHARADWAYJ, Jt. Secy.

1425 GI/2015

Printed by the Manager, Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054.
 eset Ao Sto Ueto-33004/99 REGD. NO. D. L.-33004/99

Z a
Che Gazette of Gurdia

EXTRAORDINARY
am Il—avgs 3—34-aue (ii)
PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (ii)

wife & wenrforea
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

a. 2608] ag facet, wan, feerar 19, 2014/3THETATT 28, 1936
No. 2608] NEW DELHI, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 19, 2014/AGRAHAYANA 28, 1936
BTA HATTA
we faveft, 19 feara, 2014

PLA. 3245(a). — alt ACH, Weare Hae ara (faeg sre) qeqrest, 2014 Ft area 7 At
ST-ATT (2) gre Vaca orfsrat HT WaT Hed EU sad aeaveer Ft aqest-3 F fretted sataha acct z,
wat —

aTT-3 4 Ha. 32 att sea aaa yhatteat & qearq feafafea ma tears atx vfaftear ast
arentt, arate -—

o> nN

5 fase 5 ¢ in
SUAS AATATSA WAST TeTHES, AX. F.0. WOT TTT er. ATSIT

ao in ¢ . ao
Tae Tet Hes, UT SHeerayt AT. Tet., Tea Tae Te Ae

Ferg usa aera fora fares, afraarg t

o¢

> > ooh ARS +
Testehl SStest TelHes, CTeT ATA SAAT Tet

ards geqra wede fetes, vaqag ete te wax fates,

+ in fo le we v . or
edteltele Hiltava [etlHes, aAeatth Ula Us Waz (ete

Fart TAs Taz fare

5036 GI/2014 (1)
2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(ii)]

=
40 | fase aon feraes, ft wart et vata or. fer. area

Terr usa fae fre ferres, Ferre usa

fra vegeta

. 7. oe >
 Tel FTard TetlHes, Tea Sead

aer eet ararat fetes, op ffes, waive at
ara face

reared Ferree
ae Tae use fred cared fees, atars aris fare

N fo ¢ >
telHes, Felts Usd Teed Sed TTA Tet He

ae vest usa fae gored fates, afters a

Fes, Herre usa faa scares ferry ferfre

on Frege Scares FTA

res

aereq are seart fetes, agin fore fees, saa eat

in N sy o> ¢ ~ . or
teled IelHes, elastl Tao Ielhes, Toate Hee Us Ydt Ielhes,

fee

BIAS SATS WATTS ana
ate gaa atest ferare Fort Wey Tet
farfies, fi (TFizare arfea) Ferre

5 SS Ss ¢
slats alas Tah TAT Tot

Wrearat seared fafAes

59 | ATERTITE sararae (efear) faaes, aaa ceeds fate athens

[rrt. 4. 13016/9/2014-ate-111]
falda ata, Hach ara

MINISTRY OF COAL

NOTIFICATION

New Delhi, the 19th December, 2014

S.O. 3245(E).—In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of Section 7 of the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Ordinance, 2014, the Central Government hereby makes the following modification in Schedule —III of the
said Ordinance, namely:—

 In Schedule-III, after serial number 32 and the entries relating thereto, the following serial numbers and entries shall be
added, namely :—
 [AMT avs 3(ii)]

FRA HT UATA : STATARG

SI. No. Name of Coal Mine/ Block Name of Prior Allottee State where Coal Mine/ Block
Located

“33 Parsa Chhattisgarh State Electricity Board Chhattisgarh

34 Gare Palma IV/6 Jindal Steel & Power Ltd., Nalwa Sponge Iron Chhattisgarh
Ltd.

35 Fatehpur East JLD Yavatmal Energy Ltd., R.K.M. Powergen Chhattisgarh
Pvt. Ltd., Visa Power Ltd., Green Infrastructure
Pvt. Ltd., Vandana Vidyut Ltd.

36 Gare Pelma Sector II Maharashtra State Mining Corpn Ltd., Chhattisgarh
Tamil Nadu State Electricity Board

37 Tubed Hindalco Industries Ltd., Tata Power Jharkhand
Company Ltd.

38 North Dhadu Jharkhand Ispat Pvt. Ltd., Pavanjay Steel & Jharkhand
Power Ltd., Electrosteel Castings Ltd.,
Adhunik Alloys & Power Ltd.

39 Chhati Bariatu South National Thermal Power Ltd. Jharkhand

40 Bijahan Bhushan Ltd., Shri Mahavir Ferro Alloys Pvt. | Odisha
Limited

41 Mahanadi Gujrat State Electricity Corporation Limited, | Odisha
Maharashtra State Electricity Board

42 Machhakata Gujrat State Electricity Corporation Limited, Odisha
Maharashtra State Electricity Board

43 Utkal 'E' National Alluminium Corporation Odisha

44 Utkal-D Odisha Mining Corporation Odisha

45 Radhikapur (West) Rungta Mines Limited, OCL India Ltd., Odisha
Ocean Ispat Ltd.

46 Radhikapur (East) Tata Sponge Iron Ltd., Scaw Industries Ltd., | Odisha
SPS Sponge Iron Ltd.

47 Ichhapur West Bengal Mineral Dev. & Trading Corp. West Bengal
Ltd.

48 Chendipada Uttar Pradesh Rajya Vidut Utpadan Limited, Odisha
Chattishgarh Mineral Development Corporation
Limited, Maharashtra State Power Generation
Corporation Ltd.

49 Chendipada-II Uttar Pradesh Rajya Vidut Utpadan Limited, Odisha
Chattishgarh Mineral Development
Corporation Limited, Maharashtra State Power
Generation Corporation Ltd.

 50 Dipside Manoharpur Odisha Power Generation Corporation Odisha

51 Chakla Essar Power Ltd. Jharkhand

52 Moira-Madhujore Ramsarup Lohh Udyog Ltd., Adhunik West Bengal
Corporation Ltd., Uttam Galva Steels Ltd.,
Howrah Gases Ltd., Vikas Metal & Power
Ltd., ACC Ltd.

53 Tadicherla-I Andhra Pradesh Power Generation Corpn. Ltd. | Telangana

54 Chitarpur Corporate Ispat Alloys Ltd. Jharkhand

55 Suliyari Andhra Pradesh Mineral Development Madhya Pradesh
Corporation

56 Seregarha Arcelor Mittal India Ltd, GVK Power Jharkhand
(Govindwal Sahib) Ltd.

57 Sondhia Chhattisgarh Mineral Development Chhattisgarh
Corporation Limited

58 Majra Gondwana Ispat Ltd. Maharashtra

59 Bhaskarpara Electrotherm (India) Ltd., Grasim Industries Chhattisgarh”

Ltd.

 [F. No. 13016/9/2014-CA-IIT]

VIVEK BHARADWAJ, Jt. Secy.

Printed by the Manager, Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064

and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-1 10054.

 Pat Ao Sto Ueto-33004/99 REGD. NO. D. L.-33004/99

Che Gazette of India

SATA
EXTRAORDINARY
am Il—augs 3—30-av¢ (ii)
PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (ii)

wife & wenrforea
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY
a. 2402] ag face, qerare, arTET 23, 2017/9TE 1, 1939
 No. 2402] NEW DELHI, WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2017/BHADRA 1, 1939
alae FATT

afer
a fect, 22 aed, 2017
BLS. 2741(a).—arrert are (fasra sete) arferfay, 2015 (2015 ar 11) Ft aver At Sa-aret (1)
as (V) F STAs (V) BMT Tard arpa Bl TANT He SU HekT AHS Wasa Sad satay sh ara
“JacH AH SeaTaa” Hr faforce aecy STAT wT F fafa fave acct F
[HT F. 38036/02/2014-4tT-IIT]

uta pare fare, Ayat ahrsr

MINISTRY OF COAL
NOTIFICATION
New Delhi, the 22nd August, 2017

S.O. 2741(E).—In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-clause (v) of clause (v) of sub-section (1) of
section 3 of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of 2015), the Central Government hereby specifies
“production of fertilizer” to be specified end-use for the purpose of the said Act.

 [F. No. 38036/02/2014-CA-III]

RAJESH KUMAR SINHA, Jt. Secy.

 5228 GI/2017

Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi- 110064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi- 110054.
 Uarest Wo Tho Weto-33004/99 REGD. NO. D. L.-33004/99

nd oAT
Che Gazette of India

EXTRAORDINARY
ar Il—wavs 3—3y-ais (i)
PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (i)
Wiftrenre 8 venrigra
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

a. 661) we facet, Geeatran, fearax 11, 2014/aTeTAT 20, 1936
No. 661] NEW DELHI, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 11, 2014/AGRAHAYANA 20, 1936

SAAT FATT
afegaat
ae feectt, 11 fearax, 2014

aa. ft. 883(a).— ater ara (faare rae) Fora, 2014 ar aren fra rare ara (FAST TTT)
wearer, 2014 & aefta vearaa aedt 2, waar  aaeat ake Wa ash carat fae saa vara ara Ft
MATT S, ACT ACH, HATA HATA HT ATT TAT ste Ferra, Als HTS ST, VETT HLA HT AGA a HLT ET
TT ACH Bh HLTA Haas AT SaaTS|S Te Stet Te AT

ate aaah Baa Weed F TAT AaTaa A aT  aaeat site Wa aah eattaat firs sat
warfad eta At SATs S, MAT aT Fara Vee Pu aT zi

att sae ara (fase sree) fram, 2014  aarat site qarat ae fare wet & Geara aia wT
fear WaT ZI
ae afe sac front & ade F atid aed ate Gara oatat  aeeat sie wa at eaftaat rae
saa warfsa srt Ft aarazar Z, wea few ara Z, ga ae fears Peat arom site fraat & sagqad ST aT
aatteart PRAT STC,

Ad: Aa AAT ATH, HUTA GTA (FST Trae) aegTAM, 2014 (2014 Hr aearest 5) AT are 29 az

acd srr at wart et EU frerferfad fora aad Z, sate :-
meare I: Serer ATT BT ITNT
1. aferea art site wreet :- (1) Set frat ar fered aT HTT Tat (Fara Tree) fraA, 2014 SI

(2) Fe wera F wearere Ft arte Ft Tact SET

4894 GI/2014 qd)
2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

2. aftarart — (1) ga faaat o wa ae fH aast & aero aera 4 t-

(m) “afta act’ a afore act err’ ot ataer ara (fase Trae) qeaTast, 2014 (2014 ar
wearer 5) Ai arer 3 At Sree (1) avs (wm) F Aaa WaT s;

(@) ‘area eeavas’ at fare 11 oa fae (4) B fates wears aT,

(1) ‘ardedt reer afor e set & ahr S, HT aeareer Ft ater 3 AT Saarer (1) H ave (a) F
aadataa fear war

(a) ‘art Rae at afi ag fea 2 TT iar aaa tare at 2 aaa ra ks aa aT
aaa Tara wT A ara ae ear Wa z;

(3) ‘arafaféce aR’ & ae afta & A Fae aa (faa sade) Teaser, 2014 (2014 ar
wearer 5) aearest Ft are 18% afte Fete aca are ahaa afters & wo A fat
cated &;

(a) ‘apres ee’ at afar & tert are arated ape I & arrears & fore eta AAT BT
Fratfta =prra Ftrat aftr

(SB) ‘aaa a fas 9 a Fras (6) F aaa aa

(A) ‘arafafece orfeearey & rarer are (fasra Sater) seaTesr, 2014 (2014 wr aearasr 5) AT aver
6 & aefia Hater Aare are ATA face orf a wa A fee Pew ae eafea a ara Z;

(A) ‘wares aa Vas AAT’ F ast Ata ass 2, TT fares 28 H aa fae (1) F fates Far
WaT &;

(A) ‘aeareer’ A Bae Gra (ANT Trae) AeATeaT, 2014 (2014 wr aearesr 5) AAT z;

(C) ‘arefera Fla’ AF ardent area 4 arefed aq | a rae ares fers Fala ACH BT
frae yea 4 afte 2;

(6) °ferr a eae ara (faera soda) fra, 2014 afer &;

(3) ‘ane arated? & ad arya @, ait fare 13 oe Fae (i) F ffs e:

(G) ‘fafa seater’ ar a aet aftr Z, st fara 10 oT frre (2) F fafave Z;

(Or) ‘frat arasr a adt afar &, st aearast AT are 3 At sa amet (1) ave (a) F aaah Zz;

(2) aa TTT es Ta aiteahsa @, WT sa aearaar F fora aParita vet Ft ws = ait ohana Ft TE
@, fa sar afta set Sor, ot sa aeareet F fear war ZI
weave I: arafateee orferaret

3. avafaface srfeenrdt ft frafta:- (1) Sata aeare seater AT aver 6 Ft TT are (1) B Tada
agar wa arafaface orferart Ft fated aati;
(2) ahr acer art aaenhta & agar aaa wears ores ve St Ha Se ara wa afaftat
yar & wr F afsted fear ot ana SI
4. arafatace srferardt ar aratea:- (1) hata areas faeaterfacd ar fafece ae aan @:

(*) — wearer AT ae 6-H STATA (5) HF Sarda aH aqae aTafafac|e shear At Aeraa HEA

feru atferarheat car ararheaes at ear, TeATH, aPAenT site Hea; site

[art ears 3(i)] FRA HT UIA > STATE 3

(a) ate adi, sfafrafea, afteree ara we aaa aa faartt aaa areat a few aT
aferarfat cart aaaritaes Ft Frater ft SF

(2) eer acer aratatece wrfaars aa aries wefaarst & avatars arr Pee ars are rat Be few set

THE BT AA HT Aer He aH & ra StH AAS

(3) aTafaféce orffeart araret facia fraat six faedte oftaat & yeaa & aan fareset
ey A oftaat ar sat art aie arafatece ofa aaa aefia art acd art afar F a os afar
Bl HAAT TAS a STH aria HT AH Zl

5. arafaface arftrardt six aftrerttat car aetaritaea At aar- oref:-

(1) aafafece orfereart & arafifece orfeenrst siz aftentfeat ws eerarhaes Ai Aan ore thks AHI
afaarkat cat atarkat fh vat auf, act te, Te aaa aera aaaara & foro amy fafeat, frat,
fafrraat car aferarat aed Frater at erat & ares, fafratae fare oer

(2) wea feat ar aveat a fer ae ae arate orf F dara afar aaa dated feat at
arod F frac Ft orat ws Sahara seer Aah site Aart Se, Te Tat aaa Saas F ay fat art arf
 fou art
(3) arafafeve sifted & erates 4 afeercrs sree oe fact feo ae cated jot fafa Patera
aad after ft safe orat are ona FF sath

6. fasrast :- (1) arafifece orfereret fasrostt ar frqad ee aHat @ ot arafafece orfeert art
aararaterd sat wart eros aarearet F dae F ferred tra FH cee a AZ, aaTa:-

(®) hay HTS HT HTS HATA aT FAA; STAT
(a) edt ara aearett AS HT SSH HTT AHR HT HTS Taal aera Fava ASAI

(2) arafafeve often ite aan, arafafece vfrar ar aque Hed gu ve fasrostt at fara wz
aadt & ot Pat tar F et FI

(3) arafefece oifererst area aca, fact dara, aaa frat are art afte 31 aed, 2006 &
woastararat  fraorr At Aifeat wa fearfafeat  yfeaar FH aenfataface fasrost At faaqita & few
‘qraan ararta aaa aera ‘teft arat are aaa’ a ara fore ferarenr ferns sar TANT HC AAT SI

7. aTafafeése sifted $f rftrat ae ader:- (1) arafafece wifeeer aearest car eat feral F azar
fafiface oftcat at cart am

(2) wearer At are 6 ae Gert vider Gaadh arareor at feat avafafece softer & ore
frerfetad sarfeaie ofcrat serat acter ast : -

re

(*) feet oe aradt & ae 1 Ft Reeth Star avs dae Fast aac Ga WaT, rast

FIAT AUST, SCITSA, STAT ATTA, GT Aaa se Peet oS ara fedt arr ares aaa
% aftiera arated z
(@) wa wre F area arear ar froarat HAT TT Hala Aare arer faferface He;
(7) Ua wed F arden oer ar Potraat BRAT ST als ATE are Paha Pecs He,

~

(a) arate, aaereit, catpfeat, aaateat, aaarat, cRredtecot afea feet ware & aftera gar
atic aferare, are & feeft At coer & at, aRada & are A aetrt Heats oferta ws
usa wifererieat ar a Part Bea;

4 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :

EXTRAORDINARY

[PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(5) dtantt a anet Ft a cat ares Fea a PST & fore wafers HAA HAT;

(4) PU, SVS SAAT SH FH aa ATA;

(3) wheat secrararatt at qe I a ater F tre avs h daar A Pet aches sare, ae sera

Pratt oa aredt arr afsrat qeat earet aft aes seo afararsit Hoare Sa HT Fleer Sa;

a) wa arafedt ft Peet ser aafea ar ater Tear;

ow) warfeae Peart areet aaa aa et Ta FH Aare A eH TTT aT ATS aaa HAT;

a) TT ara are are A Pe Tes are are Peet ware Ht aa aT aera TAT

Z) ar site af (faare at fafa) afer, 1957 (1957 aT 67) cat sae aes sae TT

faedt frat site fatraaat & aefta tira araet ofan & ara TAT;

(5) feet oe arafedt at dara & foro arqaea at afer dare was tHe aac aT AAT

PLAT;

(3) daft asa aearkt Get aq ara ara safes @, at afeferce aria ar stare;
() aad arat & fldea fer oH aaa Sea afer TH GTA Gea, Vala HAT TAT CaS

HAT;

(mT) aearesr Ft are 9 & Suedtalt arene fafafece st At srarfrat & area ae ara fect & fet

aq cafe at Frere 15 Ft aarfatface a areqare Hara HEAT;

(A) Saat arrears & yet arefedt & fere faa arére at arrear sere Ft corer Ft AS ar

fataféve peat:

(a) Hetty area Ft Pet afate afea arafafece wiferars tet faarfeett, aeat aera Foret atx

Fay ACHTT are ATA Peat atest ax fara

 Te ae THAT 2, BA ae aah

Flt TAS WAT eT

(3) avafafece orfeeart & ore are aes orfecat ot arf at aeareor six ea

agar aria siferariat a arate oreo an strat arent en
wear WI: Frere att ares aftear

8. ardent wfear:- (1) east I arrer erat F ardent Hae Ft:

 Faat & feo we secre

(m)   aTafefece orferardt fare 9 Ff fafafece Ate a ara stirae ar ata ST ST;

(a) tdta acer fran 8 & oo fra (2) & acta soda & aqere aafafece wife st wh

arat at Batt:

(a) ata acare are fran, 8 oa fra (2) & arefta STAT areas H aq H, araffece orferarh

ATA Saat Ft TAS ATI HAT |

fart 10 & sraat  aqare Terra Ft areas Sort aerar sarfeafe faa 11 aerar 12,

(2) dtr aca fester fad F aaer F araifece wifes ar areer at HON sare :

(®) (i) Sa Aeareer HY are-4 BH Sree Bh aATe aTaathrH terra, sterar (ii) Teaser AAT are1-5

elt Ased FH ATTA A ATTA Bh HAT AT HT Aare |

(a) Peet ree I arte art erat are I rarer art ara FH faffece seq TAT,

(1) Ate aera area eat & form faega areas, siz
 [art ears 3(i)] FRA HT UIA > STATE 5

(3) BTS AeA ATA, GT Hala ACH ST Sa AeaTaM aya za Paat & aq atta Aaa
TAT ST |

(3) dtr wear aarfeafs praca yea aya arfera yea, & fate gq arafifece ofa at
Fernrfter at aaa @, St wearer car sat Frat a ATE STH AAT HAT |
(4) Aterdh strar arent & fer crf F area ara-area Feaferfad seated er :-

(®) aff site ara aatcaat & yer & feu afta cae

(a) « warfeafa apr aoa era areata Fe
(1) Ate & arse Fare St oReadastier aha aT,

ara aeare are fratita Se & Pear area |
9. area Stfsrac :- (1) arafafece ofa aearesr Ft eer 8 Ft Sa-arer (1) & stent eae | Hae
art & yd ardtedt at ae aferghaa at ae & fh ae a oe orefedt at os FH ardied sq I stare art
a fae Het aa aa aeaTaST Tara He TT FH arf face wrest arr saa aAelt Te ST I

(2) Wet gaat ora att ax, Wa arafedt ca aearear Ft arr 8 At So-aret (2) * aqar, arafifece
orient are ant 7s aaa frre 9 & oo fare (1) F ftfece Ft rat orea ht arte 4 tae fea h tax
ae om ferme safest ST |
(3) frre 9 fh starrer (1) at oftper gu faa arafafece orf yes arate & fret oft aaa are ott
aa ATT He Aen, rea fareaferfad aeafera z:-

() Tiers aa, Bra areferar site sea afore aaa ala aq I staat art Ft

fafercearsit |
at aac Ft faferscare |

4

(@) Wa arafedt arc aaa ware FF faforccare, afe are at, afar force arftat F cate |
(Tt) | - acter aerrarcratt FY fafercecratt & ara fra 9 safeara (1) A fafece afereparar st ore
a acre apart aelera Fevrararatt ah wt AN Hh aT
(5) Sarat Ware & aera ae ahaarsit At faferceare |
(a) aearrt oe At erat Ft faforceart ae are sraqarita, wee, aaah, aaa ware dae
ATA STAT AEE |
(8) Teas aT as ae art er aT, Aare Ft ate wa ag facia Ga I
(Mt) Geter Ware & Hater F Sear earax Aart Ft faforceare |
(4) aTafafece srfeerrd dita azfera vftyfeat, rar whterat, afar ft ofecett car arafafece afters
afed ya arafedt & sreran ferett ot afta a aq I arrears & Aaa H AAT red He HT eS ae

cafet oo arafafece orferart sar aafera sate & sftae tet Gaare vera HST | Ca aeq gat aTafafete
ferardt art atest aad aa & fer aren ht |

(5) a fare & aeftes araferfec]e wife arr apt 1s aa Varst Her FH facHcta FY feat F aeareer
HY aver 24h seit orfecat wer art Sra |

 Bal

6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)
(6)  arafafece urea faaa 9 & oo fra (1) & aefte oa arafedt @ urea aa ae faa 9 ST
frre (4) & stenta ya arafedt & aed veg cahraat a oer aaa  arare ae we ferfera Stra arate

TA
(7)

HATTA | BAT art

fore ara Strat FT Ga HAT I

avafafece orfrart aaa-aaa ox, cat gt aya ca aaa A te aera eet Peer he aa

art Strat Bl ATA HT ATT
afterft: ( 1) ara fifece ofa aga I aterar arat 4h dre ca aearesr, ca faaat F

10.

 co

Al

in

fafifece Seat, site sa dae A tate genre are oe eet ares area sh rears AT TTA

aaa | atrer erat, fSreen foro etter aeanre & fare 8(2)(%) oa frre (2) AT are () TT

ea tat qaare arated att, frat Atami water & far

(2)

atari at fafaféce fear 2, & araat F arafafece woferardt fafaer via & feu eearast aate fatter
SATA AIK FATT |

(3) wears faffar aearast Ff faeafefad a

arafaface orferardt arr sfra aaa WaT ST, sitz:-

(4)
(*)

(*) = fafafece aecq soa, afe are at & fafatteat |

(@)   aqeettl are are & fafatteat stafate ara stfsraz

(7) PATH Fea, TAT eat, Areas arr ga site Safar Gaara ales arate Arar
a tea fader wa ore |

(4) weave fer rq

(S.) wee atte

at ary feu ard aret Wear HAE |

araftface orfereret art Heres ST aTett terra & fers Feared Sota ATT STT:-
aetaatiees ferret - arpa | arrer arat i terra ofa, aeareer, ea frarat a agar, faferer

SEMTAT TAT HALT ATH BIT STAT aTaatt, Pe Ars Sl, HB aAqare setaather Tara F areas a At sesh

(a) — fafaarsfhrar- (a) fifeter ofear st aeort afr anit Rrera-

(i) aepettcht ateft, itz

(ii) faecfta ate, wares Soh

(3) aad atett agar & sates & fare aart facia ateft ae atefrarar & aaa Ft Seay
(7) Wrrat- aTafafece ores fafaer aearast F tort At after & fers aaa ort ar faferfece
HOTT Ae TAT ATcat F fre ferfert aeafert st:

(i) Frat & areftaret ft cath site farce agar

(ii) = Ate afar & fare fafece sore ar apr , site

(iii) = eat, TT a AT TTT |
(3) -wearasr AY are 4 At Sa-aret (3) He aeftr oar Peet oft cara ar freaterfera array are ATATSS TAT

PO ATA :
 [art ears 3(i)] FRA HT UIA > STATE 7

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

(v)

a qearan At aren 4 Ar sa-aret (3) & aefte Peet rq I Braet ara *& fare ateft Sa AT
Ura HIT are FRAT WAT aA Ta WH AAT AAT (AAA) *& Faforce sey TAT FH ACT FT
per TRAST art a reat wera a ae ae STI

erste: afe wnat azar aot F aecg soa ohh ope Ft aT eet J aaa GE (1)
Taal seta UH aaa Saas aH UHH AT ACT WaT SA AT Wa AMAT ALT Tae:
at ara ht aed fe Ua sea wae aT aT fore sae ToT UN sae FH arefta aera
a FET

a qearay At aver 4 At Sra (3)   arefta Peet ae LL rae ara & fer aiett
 At ors aot ar Sore Pear aT eae Sa aes TAT Aas (AAT) PAfarcs seg TIATT
ae At Het TRAST ATT HATS Ther ardt S Ha ATT SAT

eaediaryy: sa Gs H Watsrat few ae wpaat erat aay site UH a afer F ecg TTT
Uae ope Ft TT Tet S AAA SS (1) H Sse aes WH Hara sae arherH UHH site
AM UTA SAT AeA UH SAAT ALM Tae: ST TA alt aod fe VS seq wHH aT ae fers
ara aaa At 7s UN aaa Ata ahaerat FHA a ST

fafifece aeca soar afatorer Ft ana azareafe aaah Wl arae ala aera aes UL
rare are, forearm fre aot ate & wat S, At cea Saat & aeara H ETH |

ate are HIT Get Tet arerest ATA S TT WA HAT Asta ATA A HAA Ted He AT
rasa tat pot at areca art a TS At ort art stat Ft ater sh areare ae aT
wa a a at th

ST Ge (i) ate Ge (ii) F Was | fers ae Fe Sot Ta aT Se a HT ATT ATT
HTT ST TTT TAT Bh ATATE TE SVT TY HT rear Ta etaHT ate / TITAT AT HIT FH
cfera sareaarat, afe Fre St, ATT Aah wT a Ta SMT |

(5) avafafece orferaré arat aerat erat Sere aera arat Ft afarenca dear ar oft fafa fece ax aa

fret attr aeare art faftfece arrcet & arene ax fret jadt aera cath aaa anftat azar aearg

aufeat at ardfca fear area |

(6) avafafece woferardt aha aca Fi Peet aaa atea wet faite fromat aerar Reatet aa Ata

aeart aren set eet areert ae faare He aH S reat ae seareer Ft arer 8 AY Sa-erret (5) ae F

TIAA HET HT TAIT Het H STH AAS |

(7) aaa fece orferart, fect size sash arora a He awe ede aaa wa Ff tart & fer

ares aa ST TT | Wat ae F Pear sear EAT TTT HLT Sq ae-ah fa fece ST

( 8) fafaar vfmar Ff anfterct at year aq I arrer ara & fer ora are wa aT aiftes vite

CAT SVT |

(9) arastfte tert afar Tt art Geara aTafifeae ofa aaa aeftarat FH aaa H Ader FH

art fararitet eller aeaae YT ASAT |

(10) wef

Fararitar wret HA HUST als AHIR aaa face ores HT Her areftaray Haar H Pea

g

=

ST ST HA BT Sat ayaT aah face orf Ht aa Sara WA STH aTeeT HT AAT |

1. Ader: (1) aafafece wrfeearh art aearesr, sa fraat, ate sa dada Fle aa are aT aT

g

aot # fifece Ae & ape I arrears aT aretet arreor FAT STTATT |
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(2)

arafaface wrferardt erat sara araet arefardt aera stat Ft atfeenca ear ar fafafece pear

(3)

fared Fata acare frathta arreet  ararre ae ret aearst Hot stray tsa a Pet fers at arated fear
ST FATT |

aaa | araret Sarat & ae F dla acare aT Fara 8 HT faa(2) Ge (m) H achat adeat HI

(4)

fafaface fear 3,  arafafece orferardt wa aren erat AAT “Adem EAT” GATT HUT |

yearn ated aearas A ferferfaa aa wet gaat aeatera anf, ra arafafece wifes

aden & ware & fre aaa aaa WaT ST:
(=m) : afafece aera vat, afe are at, At fafattear

(5)

op

(@) : ara Stax Brad ae | ararer ara & fafafteat aera at

(1) : arefera ea TAT rat aes arated A Hareg ore ate Prater, aren Hes At what gar acetal

TA TAT

(3): wet arated

are aoed feu wd are Wearfaa Hee

aratatete wrfarara

fh aa sash arora ea a ee UH — aH es aaa Vat F aeareer

are

5 & atte ort aa

aadt saat Fara a a

aad afta ea & few arate Gara ATT HAT sire

ara
(6)

fifece orferarst art a

Saat Bl Sa Alden sears AT arash ATTA St HT VeeT PAT

adet saat ated & fre aeahaa fal

award :-

(7)

(ah) fara F areareH amet Hla Set fears Ft sera;

(@) araee & facta sate, raat fae ert car per errata z;

fifdce Sor att Da aetae F faeatifad ofa eh

(1) araten Ht cath ara sie Tea

(4) area sat ree aaa F alr er STAT wearfaa 2;

(.) aearghe stax;

(A) asa FT arterrat ar rarer;

(3) Pret Pratt aca soar & fers arreat STAT ATA Fy;

(i) Hey TIT Sharer Ht Tart at fark;

fere soar Ft sat ateft weatfaer vrai:

(ii) are art Aaa A areca gare afer At aera;

(iii) afe faga scarea fafafeve stat soar & at aaa Hot FH cea F ofa eahea fae
SISTA;

 aratatete orferara

wearer FT are 8

SI-ATAT (5) FH ATALT

H archerd Gea BT AAA HLA FH

fer ata ane At ahaa afea Peet arate Ar ut arent, frenat att aatey aeare are at Peet

arat Te Fae HT HTT TT A AAT TAT STI
(8)  arafafece wiferart ardtedt aaa & dae F at fares Hale aa aT Aas HOTT

(9)

wat frarhtat area SI x, Heter aH aaa fees wifes at ae ardfedt H aa A area areer

aret Hea & fore Freer & aah sera Wa seg aTemaars freer = saat at Shara Aaa AT eT
[art ears 3(i)] FRA HT UIA > STATE 9

12. faga wRaterreatt ® fare thts arent sfaarht ate & area oe arctan fry 8,10 arat 11
safafte fret ara ert gu at stearesr At arer 5 Ft Sa-arer (1) & aepare Hatt Tere VT Peet Hot aT
aga | etre art arated ae aaa, fora dee F faa Aarea are wa arate at faarheer Ft re eT,
fore atta areas art aa sat ST are erat ar Patera oe ef foro ofeartt are arate Frere
aaa aaa at aati at

(2) hata aeare ae 1 ft Oat arret arat Ft att aferg haa aett ott fre 12 & atefta area h fers
Sree SUT se Wa area BH ferw are we frteret fh fafa fec|e ae sen

13. fara itt arden & Areqa @ sow — (1) fae 10 & Sadat aaa, Aha aefraray aaa faa
11 Haar 12% sada aqare arefedt aatg “ane arcfedt mar: Peart area TAA AST AS GT HET
I UTA SPT

(2) ate ane arafedt ot arafedt & é aa:

(*) wa aarfeafa ane aratedt flare arest aaa aded Sree BT Hat THT WTca HA HT ATT SVT aT
sat Tere attra fax ay aa afeeaa Taaet Hr Aart He fear St

(8) sa ane arafedh cent aoe chara aerrarareit Ht ferfadt FH ahaa Ho, oT teaser At Arey
12 FT Tray (1) FH SS (H) H Saat HF aa aaa Hae ST Tad aT At faeq s aH
Zl

(1) - Ga aha ardfedt aeareer FY BaraST arey 8 AT Sa-eTeT (11) site are (10) F fafaface
ff a aaa areal at ae TTI

(3) -afe amet arafedt oo arafedt vet & aa:
(*) wa ya arefedt faa 15 4 soetaa Afe & cera oer eet aor ar ferns ett:
(3) 9 whet arated :-
(i) ae arafedt at ferfad # afro aor fh ae aeareer Ar arer 10 At adh a aa SAH BT
arret aeata Bh Tae orah site Prtearatt Te HAA Gat Tare FH Tae Peet et aac FT
tartare F at aa Sere STAT HA fers aay pS HAT
(ii) arafaface orfaeardt at aareate fart saat arte arrest a ore art a ot feet wat
arafedt & ara freaare fret aferar at art Tat aera sara HT sere sh Aetea F ferfad F
qfat eam
(ii) Het arated F Ve Para area Sra Te aTAfface orf sarees frat acer ata
ardent ares H se aearesr At are 11 Sadat aqare tet dearest ar fea aeafera
aT
(4) wearer At aver 8 At St-aret (6) H Sadat F qa ater atefrarat srrat arafedt 4 ae atfera
em f ag aarfeata Fete aeare are azar arafafece wrist are aarfahece uate few foared
am TET Varad HOTT ste VST Froaraa SH TAT H tea aa — ara faraferfad h fer sates eM, Aala:-
(i) ag feat ord att aaade am;
(i) = ae arre ara ® fare & few Prather araraet & ara aa ae at cae wa ae alae ETT
tart Gat ae aarfafface aqatied are ator F aarfatafece aut oft Ves etaar
ah 7 Wes TU; az

(iii) awa sep TT a arepare fea Pret facta, arafer, afaae vate, fatter sera qarafea
feat fret ware dears Sra atfev;

10 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(5) weet arefedt arafafece wrferarst & ara wee Hor frat arteaht ord wd frdea fratfea
fatafece ft arosth

(6) fave 13% ou fae (5) & sodat & aefta aoet Here Ft rat aa, fear qea vega Hea, Fa
HATA AIA St aa HF Sadat wh Seetaat Ht feat H asa Peet ara ay fata H areftt Ga TET LE STAT
HY feat F arafifece wifes frat area AAT AST ATS AT LE HL VAT!
 (7) weet arafedt are aq araer ara BT Hes Aa TAT aeaTaer Ft aver 8 Ft SaT-areT (7) TAT

marae afer Fart areer aera ade areer, aT At ara at, F fafafece os a aaa Wares aT
eal HT UTA SETI

14. - ot ardfedt & fare ofan & aaaren aie ooftpa fait creda were Greet Her At fafa—(1)
ae aretedt ar ea feat ar raarcor aearest AT arer 16 Sata a aepare arafrfece soft are feat
aa sat waters & fer arafafece orferartt-

(®) sro H seareer Fh are 8 AT Sa-arer (1) Ae are 16 Ft Stare (2) F apa Gata F
aa yarfad aoa ara & ara yea Baar & foro afar art aaa HF AaAST
date A AAT ANT Aa,

(@) weaves FT aver 6 Ft Ta-areT (2) Sadat aeqare ys arsfedt st ea vite a Peart
aaa Feta aa A/a Peres A Aer Wa HT ATI

(2) 4 arafedt aearest FF arer 16 Ft so-arer (1) agers sa Aa H arafafece orfsars
are fafiféce aaa a vftae age — 1 erat & dade Ft asta fees vere ate aaa sah
varie oft arahtface orferarst oe aot STI

15. - oe arafedt & freq oafecat at fat a set aera afar AY orerferpa.— (1) eeareer AT aret 9
Tras TA aT — | Brae ars Aaa A A ca art Aaa FT TT aT HT faa Hara F
Preafetad srereraatt et sare cad eu far sear, state:

() aeareer ft are 9 SS (H) H aqae cera Fe TaTaTsA HT Fara;
easdtaca —afe vet us a afer clea aevrarar & ate Af aa art Hao F TT
aNTa Sreh ara BT TT HA fore watea vet Ss, TT ava hfeve sofas sa aeorararat at
san Cera erat aaa F Fars HOTT
(@) | aera atte at ate acre aT asa are HT aT Feet carts wef Ft ys aretha
orem oat totes ae Sra afahaad Tare Tar et she eT ACAI Ble GTA
aaa A oe arta & Ste ed ace Fret flare Tem aT AT ST ATA Tz,
(2) arat ar waar :- (&) aTafafece orf aah aa feat arose He aa A Ha UH — UH ATE
Tat HTH aT Ya atafedt a Area caftaat at ca faa & aefts Aare yea Hed & fore faa sate
Mraz ares safer erat 2 AGS Bh ATA eT are Teta Hed fer ara egt HT ATT!
(3) 9 Wa were araare ST Ta faface orfeeart arr fatafece aaa & sftaz ara aT aaa reat Het
a fore aearaet Stat &, Pau ae afaaen F ofa set Pear seo, ae avafafece wrferars are

aaa & tax Paw ae afar & fro ast ae ST;

(1) Yate ard aqare oat arate] orf faa 15 & oafara (1) F fafafece stafaear
ATATS STAT HT HA TT HOTT HT WT TT HA AAT SAH Seotherdt ST ATT;

(a) arafefece wife tet ora, ay sat ca A aracae a, & ate OS arat ar eareq aie ATT
aaartta wear car fered ares aren feet are ar Gt ae aerar ater wa a estar aay
Tea BT ATT;

 [art ears 3(i)] FRA HT UIA > STATE 11

(S.)  Wraferenat & me he atqare erat Prater aeer H feet fererrfe Ft feats F arazer at Hete
Aare Hh UTA AT BTA aie Sa Ader Hla aecare aT fete arafafece orf F fers

aret ENT;

(3) -afaaeo ft Afa :- ca fae SS Pace dare aot eae Wa cafes Ft cesta cera secrararat afea
a va catraat are few ae ara aearita Stat We VA Aaa BT aTea eT H EHare sataaat are faAfee
ah aid & areas a Peo aT
16.   errac aafer } ae Br Aaa —(1) aera Ft arer 10 Ft St-aret (5) H eeqat Fe aqacT F
arafaface wrferarét art earax sate ee Hh aaa aaa A fae 15 H safas (3) F fatafece vipat
aarp aad aed aL arin
(2) afe earaz aafea, farear froera are 10 Ft sa-aret (5) & Sraet FH aaa THT StefraraT AST
arafedt arr at fear war at, Cat cara aafea ar caret strat cata ferferfaa serait a arare Te ST
carat afer HT aft HL AHA, AATT:-

(m) wa cars vat F ger fara, dios, cate;

(@) Wa Ha ATEN Tega He ATT HTS ETAT;

(1) Ua cart At oer afeat F wfattear;
17. a: Abert ate oe: ardeet (1) ale, aarfeafa, fae 10 ar fae 11 aga Foor fet At
are ae ot at ato agar A feet ae rae ars aT ade ael fear oar @ at aafaface
orfeeart at, zarfeata, fra 11 aqeare Oat aati ataer ara At Ararat eae adet YA: aT HT
ft orfta erft, aerct fe arafafece orferert at tet aq aren aart & tater HF dle aca a fas 8B
a Suara (2) a tells HS ART AST WT TT SST ST
(2) afe safer (1)  atefte fret qe arrenr areat & deter Fetter acre A BTS TAT aTaaT TA
frat @ dt arafafece orf ta area a aq art Horr ate, aarfeata, frat 10 aaar fra 11
sre araeaen TRadat aed ART Shr

weary IV : afafter sare

18. afafter sare :—(1) 24 fararaz, 2014 (24 fara, 2014 afea) oe fret sql Frazer art
a scahia araet & dae H afehaed seven ys ardfedt aver 31 fedax,2014 Ft axa saa Ya Hale aeHTT
2h UT SAT her fear STAT
(2) aréra 24 faarax, 2014 & are A 31 ATH, 2015 TH (31 ATS, 2015 afea) feat aq stra ara
seatta Hraet & aaa F afta sere Ys arafect amet 30 Fa, 2015 Hl AAT Sa YF ACH HITT TAT

CATAT STAT
(3) afaftea seven aT areata aaa sag aaa (ardisiiva) aera asda eerie fate aac

(wasuHel) aed fret feats sree, te aH araT seg serenity ATETAT A Aaa AHI art Faaifer
ware F SAT TAT STAT

aeaa V : aftaa eqaeare
19. wae art & afeca saa & fea eqaere —(1) aearen FF are 20 Ft Saar (1) F
Sear BE HAL AVA STATES HET HT TEATS HEA ATT Ae Areftaray Asay ardfedd svar Haar
Teta aren ferfeard F aly ACH AT ATT ST BOTTI
(2) faa 19 & saftae (1) F sfeafed araen freaferfera & ae sate oer eT, erate: -

(&) weatfaa waret aerar saat * Tera,

(@) Wearlact HUt AAA SALA; BIT
12 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(a) ag fa, frase areas 4 0a woe aya sage alae art ar afer SIT aa aT
BaTAT WT BUT

(3) dtr acer vearfaa were aya eaaeareit aaa Fost afer gaa wat sat at ag Sherr
aaa
(4) Seta aeare UT as a9aTa TT Tat wa A araeaes BT, ferfea areer arr wearfaa Hae aeaT
STAM FT TOT ST ea arfory wT a seated aerat setters He aah
(5) Wa w aret aay saaearait ar ferred at ara ae Sat warftra whe a forrest 15 arcane feaat
a lax aah acre ore aT FY sah
20. ana aaiedt & aq daa ® fare alae ar saarT —(1) aearaa Ft aver 20 Fi Sa-aret (2) *
sraat  aqare arava fafafece aecg soar & fers are ae ateftarar aad aay arafedt aerar aa
aerate bot i sere Peet cert & fare aq sree ara fasta 4 scahta arret  STANT aT Wears HT
areat aha ateftarat erat ara fedtt setts aeanre at ferfet H ys era SAT
(2) soften (1) F fatfece aa ba soar At aqarita arte a ea A a 30 Freee feaa vat Tt
auth
(3) Hatt wears US Soa & aaa A UT ate Gea AT aaa ot ae sea ant siz TT org ay
Raga afecitta ac aanft aT ag araeaes aaaT
HATA VI: HATA ATT
21. dara arara Ft Pgiea —(1) Hata Tears aearar Ft are 15 Sasa aqare Hara aga F
fagiea ah
(2) Fara aged aT Ve rearfers ve aera aerarfers ae St aT Ss Aya Hala AcHe are fratha
agar afar & =a Ft aaarite fear at aaa
22, Sara HAT HT Hata :— (1) Haley AAT :-

(F) « - wearer AY aret 15 Ft ST-arey (2) F aqare Aaa agra AY Geraar Ad afearfear site

araiga ft Hear, Taare, yferar sitz pea Pratita ae aaah; six
(a) atet ad, ae fasett aera areat & ofafigita dfear, azar qaqeer & aa a
afearitat cat ararieat Ft frafec ft Aft fatatece ae aaah

(2) hdhr aene Aas AAT TAT Aas ATT FH HAT are aa ahaa  faea & fer vs arta
arden Ft at vat ST te Sra aa
(3) Fara aga ara facta fraat wa facia raat ar searatiort frat & srpare faserezer
ey Ff raat ar saat ear aie ae aad aes area aferarfeat F a Peet oH afar ar erates wae
arafafate at aaTT
23. dara Hard Ta aaa & alert ake eearhat At Aer ae —(1) Fara ara car aferarhat
a aattat Fi Aart ad ater & 0a faerat fereae stenta fafeat faa, fafaae aor after oft F et
oat & aqare fafenfe etft at aeqedt af aar t-ds, de-9 ayer aaart art Fala aH F
afaarktat ait aarhat ox ary 2
(2) wea feantt aera treat & fore St art Gea Hara aT TS Sara Pee St are athens aT
aated fart azar areat F aries Teese ate Saat aya Satara aver afer ae any fratsrt
At oat atx Frarat a weft Shr
(3) Fara aaa ® arate F afar & ara ae fat erie aot Paha & aaa F after Ft aafera
rat art ofa SAT
24. dara aaa At afeear ate afta —(1) deta sara F Te azar aaa ca fant F
qarfafafece orftaqat ahh
(2) gerret Ft career ve oft ware set frat dara aged & oe freafefad F ata F aerate
ofaat aerat aca SH;

(*) — avafefece orferart arr aaentta wera tet & aerae can ar ot ardfectt at tare AAT;

 [art ears 3(i)] FRA HT UIA > STATE 13

(3) aaa aficat ® fate & feo wa aya vad ate de ard Glad, SAH Waa TAT

ATA HAT; HT
(7) WearR Aa Frage area & few dara aged are feu ort art afaaet & ade F
after Tear
(3) ara agra &h ae et are ag ofecat at ehh, ot dara aga & arfacat F Aaa FH oho
ara wah aM

25. dar faa :—ea fae & leafed car fataface Sm arg & area & 0A fafface eatsaat ar aT
War Hara oret Hea fore wafer ShT Sat Gears aa Sah are Feu ae erat At ars ae Fe TTT
weATT VIL: aTaPa ase aires

26. arafaface aftreera Fh frafaa : (1) Hata sear aeareer Ft are 18 Ft Trae (1) & aeftt
afeepaar & areaa a Peet At qa arrer ara & foro Peet oft cata at arahifece arftcern Prapra ae
aa
(2) attr acer vers ae arse ara & fore sent — arent aa face arcane Paget et aah
(3) arafafeve afters, dha aca YS aqdied @ aad achat & fides & few ta afeenrRat,
erastararat, aire fasrasrt ht fafa He ae, TT aa LTH ST

(4) Sehr wear arest art aaa Baal TA Tet Treat at PAP fece ax aa fares stenta Feaferfea

(*)  arafaféve aftcern Fh fratea aft arate, fort dtr aca are Aaa We ASM OT
wal, Ae araeas ST AT,
(a) = faferee artaréat, afe are at, fired arafafece afieern are sat att we were aaeet-I
ara dae Ff Heat afer SVT;
(1) -afe arafafece afc Gara Tare TS aa S TT aTAfAfece aca art seat Hrat
am Ferrera Ft ferfer;
(5) 9 attr acare arafafeye aftcern hae Ware TAT Vaeret HTT HT TAHT

27. wrafafése afters are eot:—(1) aTafafece aficam ca aeare F aata ATs HAT STA F
ye aratfedt at aren set Hem ears EA Brea ara HT aes atferare oar Fao A rs HT TT SVT

(2) etre eel Bre art HT Hest at aT aa face aise Tea aq | lr |arat F
fafa afer Ft ast dare or gar aia feat Ft ae at Hts aes aa Te arate wet ASAT

(3) Aq Braet ara aract F afe arafiface afteerH var freer sar | at we aredfedt frattear
TAF BT FATT ATA HATA ATs aT afeTSor He TH ATA face aftrery Ht fava F tHe GTI
ATA ft Braet arat Te afar TATU TS AHA SI

28. 0 Waleed Ua see SheraT—(1) aa fates aera sett att we apt I vate arrer ara & fer
faeqa Warert Ua Teer AAT Fae HOTT TAT Hal ATHTT are Frathea Oat safe, ot dra area Raat a
afters set arth, a sftae ett waters UF Teter SISTA HALT ACH HY TETT HAT

(2) Waters Ua Water aha F feaferfed a date aco statue ett

() wa aes fore are arafafece aftreern geared aq I Ft elrea |@ra HT Aarestat Us Tse
Cre 3

14

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(@)

()

&)

(=)

(3) HAT AH WaT Ue Vetere ATTA HY STA He ae Ta SA Wares We aT ATSTAT BH ATT

aqqa-l street   Araet A Wares Ua yaaa ahora F arafifece ahieere art =a
weave Ft aver 19 At Sa-arer (2)  atenta Ft srt areft Peet At artare ar faa oer
eT;
Wares Us Tse ASAT h HTAteaae F aah fase ahaa are sae FY ot aTehh Het ALTA AT
faq:

aiftent At ear Bra wares Ud veer Bier Fh raieaae & fro arafafece afters Farrer
HOT AAT ATS TL TAM ;
afe arafiface aftcaa Gad Wares YS HAT STAT acare are Prathta Ws a tae
froerat axa & at aTafaface aftcarH aren oret Ft TT are GHA;

a serra Ft are 19 Ft sa-arer (6) & aqare aafafece afteern gre Pret ver a
ATTA LAY BAA STAT Bh Waa We ateret BH atereor aT AA

H arafiface afieere ar art He seat ot aTafifac]e arftrcerp oh ferme aremenret Se Hala AHS Pereth shh

aaa arafafece aftcerh Al Ware Ua WaT AAT F ToT HA BH fers HE aT ZI

29. wid, tera, Fre—(1) aes afdcere arr alfa aaraferat wea wert AT ara alee

GATT BTA AAT HY TTT HI FH fers sea AL TS ATT Ht Therght hater eae ares AT STH
(2) arafefece afarcere are afta feo oat are feat seer ar Uses et ae Ta aT eat

STOTT

(3) arafafeve aftrcera aot anrat Ft yet aed & fore atte areas art Prather hte & fore ast
30. arafafdse afters A afeaar-—(1) sa aearear AT area 19 & aefta father oftaat ae ararer

ate oe are fh vara ever fear ate aeare are ST eet At areer Tar Wares Ua Weert AToTAT  Heareft
arafaface after oat freaferferd orferrat set eter

(®)
(=)
(1)
()

&)

1)

(8)

TEA BAT GTA A SAAT WATT HAT;

 PTA Gt Taree He ah fore veteran Us rey arisen pet HAT;
sa ath we aq arrears & Peet At eer aerar oP F yaar wear aa fret ser
Saptt aT Tae Het oh fers wre BAT;

a Hearan FT are 19 At Sq-aTeT (3) H SISTA FH TATE ATTA UL Brae |arat Brey Fae
Tae ah aor St aeett ah fore arasay sre Ah HCAS HAT;
afe arafiface afacern sa aeareer At arr 19 FY St-aret (3) % Staal Hapa SAL
PAA GTA BT VT ATT TTT HAT z, TT saht fqhra Ft arta a vet Feet At aaa Pao aT

aed a aafera @ at arahifece afters ca aeares Ft are 9 soaeat aqere zarfeate,

WTA HEH ATS TAT WS Aa, Hare OS arafet wt eft ofr arm

ears aera Pet cartier afer sar Het, ey, THT Ta eet = ara alee Pet st gee
BT Say HAT Ped, AE At War aaa WS arated az Tara a ST;
Wed Fe ate fe ate ae aaa ara area Ue Tere & fer aaa S aT aTahface ae
Pals AHL HS ATA A AS SAT HC THAT F;

seat att Te aA Brea ara Ys aratfedt aerar fet eta ger Hr Vet aaa wa

~

SEMA TATA BE AH FATT He THT TT fH Aaa TAS TT St

[art ears 3(i)] FRA HT UIA > STATE 15

(ot) za aearest aa eat faaat F Pratika araifece afters & arat & aorraeaed aera Sah
arfera are aq orf

(2) arafafeve aftcern ar sa att we Peet repeat I etre ara ar aeferat Hea FH fer Feat ceare At
areas Bea AY fsa aes Shh aa face arfircery Wat Peet At eres feat aa wat wrtars H aaa
are F hats sears Bt copra feta wr F ahaa FUT

(3) Reha rears Peet At aa araftece aficere Ht ae Freer = aaaft fH ae carat fafece Peat Ah ara
apr afearart veers Tar aa Sa aeaTa aa sa faat & aerat & aqare sata safe At ats eI

Feare VII: wT

31.0 afe are afta Sale wears aT eet Hemet aT eat faa &h refs HTS SEATAT WeTa HAT J AT Far S
aT Ua aearast ara Sat areataaar F ager F UH rqaras SMT six a9seadi Sa A as Ta aaa z= OH
war aearast Fee & aT aes ae 2 aT ae Tera va fafa & afta art Se

32. wer er —arafafece ofan, dara erga wa ara ffece arcere area Fh fran wast Terra
aeters Ft rat Ten & aeareta SPT

33.0 array wa aaa —aafece orfters, wera aged aa arafafece aficee wa awrite,
avafafece srfeenret & arr art eet are aferart us aebaratde, cert agra gar arafiface acars ar
Tt AR] St et AAT WS Aaa raat a aeareftst SAT

 ["T. &. 11022/10/2014-4tv-1]
faae arcane, dyad ahr

MINISTRY OF COAL
NOTIFICATION
New Delhi, the 11th December, 2014

GS.R. 883(E)—WHEREAS a draft of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014 which the Central
Government proposes to make under the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Ordinance, 2014 was placed in the website of
the Government of India, Ministry of Coal requesting the members of public and all the persons likely to be affected
thereby to submit their objections and suggestions, if any, to the Government of India, Ministry of Coal;

AND WHEREAS in response to such public notice the Ministry of Coal received objections and suggestions from the
members of public and the persons likely to be affected thereby;

AND WHEREAS the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014 were finalised after considering the objections and
suggestions;

AND WHEREAS if any further objections and suggestions are received on the said rules from the members of public
and the persons likely to be affected thereby, the same shall be considered and the rules shall be suitable amended;

NOW, THEREFORE, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 29 of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions)
Ordinance, 2014 (Ord. 5 of 2014), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:—

CHAPTER I: SHORT TITLE AND COMMENCEMENT
1. Short title and commencement.- (1)These rules may be called the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014.
 (2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
 2. Definitions.- (1) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-

(a) “additional levy” has the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (a) of sub-section (1) Section 3 of the Coal
Mines (Special Provisions) Ordinance, 2014 (Ord. 5 of 2014);

(b) “allotment document” means the document referred to in sub-rule (4) of rule 11;
16 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(c) “allotment order” means the allotment order as referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the
Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Ordinance, 2014 (Ord. 5 of 2014);

(d) “business day” means a day which is not a Saturday or Sunday or any other day declared as a public holiday by
the Central Government;

(e) “designated custodian” means a person appointed as a designated custodian by the Central Government under
section 18 of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Ordinance, 2014 (Ord. 5 of 2014);

(f) “floor price” means the price fixed by the Central Government for a Schedule I coal mine allocated by way of
auction;

(g) “mine dossier” means the mine dossier as referred to in sub-rule (6) of rule 9;

(h) “nominated authority” means a person appointed as a nominated authority by the Central Government under
section 6 of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Ordinance, 2014 (Ord. 5 of 2014);

(i) “operation and management plan” means the plan as referred to in sub-rule (1) of rule 28;
(j) “Ordinance” means the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Ordinance, 2014 (Ord. 5 of 2014);

(k) “reserve price” means the price fixed by the Central Government for a Schedule I coal mine allocated by way of
allotment;

(1) “rules” means the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014;
(m) “successful allocatee” means the successful allocatee as referred to in sub-rule (1) of rule13;
(n) “tender document” mea ns the tender document as referred to in sub-rule (2) of rule 10;

(o) “vesting order’ means the vesting order as referred to in clause (w) of sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the
Ordinance.

 (2) Words and expressions used herein but not defined and defined in the Ordinance shall have the meaning
respectively assigned to them in the Ordinance.

 CHAPTER II: THE NOMINATED AUTHORITY

3. Appointment of the nominated authority.- (1) The Central Government shall appoint a nominated authority in
accordance with the provisions of sub-section (1) of Section 6 of the Ordinance.

 (2) The nominated authority may be a full time authority or be designated as an additional charge, as determined by
the Central Government.

 4. Office of the nominated authority.- (1) The Central Government may specify-

(a) the number, designation, role and function of the officers and staff to assist the nominated authority in
accordance with the provision of sub-section (5) of Section 6 of the Ordinance; and

(b) the manner of appointment of the officers and staff through direct recruitment, deputation, contract, or
assignment from other departments or organisations.

 (2) The Central Government may make such budgetary allocation as it may deem fit, for discharge of functions by
the nominated authority and the office of the nominated authority.

 (3) The nominated authority shall exercise powers as Head of the Department in accordance with the General
Financial Rules and Delegation of Financial Power Rules and the nominated authority may designate one of the officers
working under him as Head of Office.

 5. Conditions of service of the nominated authority and the officers and staff.- (1) The conditions of service of
the nominated authority and the officers and staff of the nominated authority, shall be regulated in accordance with such
terms of employment, including the laws, rules, regulations, and contracts, as are applicable to officers and employees of
the Central Government belonging to the corresponding category and pay band, grade pay or scale of pay.

 (2) Officers assigned from other departments or organisations and posted with the nominated authority shall be
governed by the terms of employment and the rules applicable to them in their respective departments or organisations
belonging to the corresponding category and pay band, grade pay or scale of pay.

 (3) Persons appointed on contractual basis in the office of the nominated authority shall be governed by their
respective terms of contract with respect to their appointment.

 6. Experts.- (1) The nominated authority may appoint experts who are already on the panel of the following with
respect to similar expert advisory as required by the nominated authority, namely:-
 [art ears 3(i)] FRA HT UIA > STATE 17

(a) any ministry or department of the Central Government; or

(b) any Central Government public sector enterprise or any statutory or autonomous organisation of the Central
Government.

 (2) The nominated authority may also appoint experts who are not on any panel after following the procedure
specified by the Central Government.

 (3) The nominated authority may in its discretion use quality based selection or selection by direct negotiations for
appointment of experts, as specified in the Manual of Policies and Procedure of Employment of Consultants, dated the
31st August, 2006, issued by the Government of India, Ministry of Finance, Department of Expenditure.

 7. Powers and duties of the nominated authority.- (1) The nominated authority shall exercise such powers as
specified in the Ordinance and these rules.

 (2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing powers and duties specified under section 6 of the
Ordinance, the nominated authority shall have the power or the duty, as the case may be, to-

(a) call for all information necessary from any prior allottee in relation to any Schedule I coal mine, including
records in relation to the coal reserves, production, costs of production, mine infrastructure and contracts
entered into by any prior allottee;

(b) execute the vesting order in such form as may be specified by the Central Government;
(c) execute the allotment order in such form as may be specified by the Central Government;

(d) inform the relevant Central authorities and State authorities to record and mutate incorporeal rights of
whatsoever nature including, of consents, permissions, permits, approvals, grants, registrations;

(e) take requisite steps for the collection of auction proceeds and the amounts realised from allotment;
(f) seek the details of taxes, levies or cess;

(g) direct the secured creditors in relation to a Schedule I coal mine to provide details of any secured debt,
loans or other credit facilities, including security interest created by any prior allottee;

(h) — ensure collection of bank guarantee in relation to a vesting order or an allotment order, as the case may be;
(i) keep records of any movable property of the prior allottee;

(j) keep records of the intimation of any charge in relation to a Schedule I coal mine provided by any prior
allottee;

(k) call for information from the relevant statutory authorities under the Mines and Minerals (Development and
Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957) and any rules and regulations made thereunder;

(1) adjust the preferential payments and transfer of amount to the Commissioner of Payments for disbursal to
any prior allottee;

(m) transfer of residual amount to the respective State Governments where the Schedule I coal mine is located;
(n) open, operate and maintain one or more bank accounts for discharge of its functions;

(o) make payment to any person other than the prior allottee in accordance with the priority of payments
specified in accordance with the provisions of section 9 of the Ordinance and in the manner as specified in
rule 15;

(p) — specify the manner of disposal of coal stock on the appointed date with the prior allottee of Schedule II coal
mine; and

(q) the nominated authority may take into consideration such recommendations, findings or reports, including
that of any committee of the Central Government, and any order issued by the Central Government as it
may deem expedient.

 (3) The nominated authority shall also have any other powers which may be consequential or incidental to the
functions of the nominated authority specified in the Ordinance and these rules.

 CHAPTER III: AUCTION AND ALLOTMENT PROCESS
8. Allocation process.- (1) In connection with the allocation of Schedule I coal mines-
(a) the nominated authority shall finalise a mine dossier in the manner specified in rule 9;

(b) the Central Government shall issue an order to the nominated authority as provided in sub-rule (2) of rule 8;
18 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(c) pursuant to the order issued by the Central Government under sub-rule (2) of rule 8, the nominated
authority shall conduct the auction process in accordance with the provisions of rule 10 or the allotment
process in accordance with rule 11 and rule 12, as the case may be.

 (2) The Central Government shall issue an order to the nominated authority regarding the following, namely:-
(a) the manner of allocation of the Schedule I coal mine through —
(i) public auction in accordance with the provisions of section 4 of the Ordinance; or
(ii) allotment under section 5 of the Ordinance;
(b) _ the specified end use in case of any Schedule II coal mine or Schedule III coal mine;
(c) broad parameters for conducting auction or allotment; and

(d) any other matter that the Central Government may deem expedient in accordance with the Ordinance or
these rules.

 (3) The Central Government may recommend the methodology for determination of the Floor Price or Reserve
Price, as the case may be, to the nominated authority which shall make the determination of the same in accordance with
the Ordinance and these rules.

 (4) The sum for auction or allotment shall, inter-alia, include-
(a) a fixed amount for the value of land and mine infrastructure,
(b) the floor price or reserve price, as the case may be,
(c) a variable amount of bid, in case of auction,

to be paid in such manner as may be specified by the Central Government.

 9. Mine Dossier.—(1) The nominated authority may notify any prior allottee of the Schedule I coal mine under
sub-section (1) of section 8 of the Ordinance to provide such information and documents regarding the Schedule I coal
mine earlier allotted to such prior allottee, as the nominated authority may feel expedient.

 (2) Upon receipt of such notice, in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 8 of the Ordinance,
the prior allottee shall provide the information requested by the nominated authority within a period of fifteen days
starting from the date of receipt of the notice referred in sub-rule (1) of rule 9.

(3) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-rule (1) of rule 9, the nominated authority may, at any time, seek any
information from a prior allottee including-

(a) particulars of Schedule I coal mine, including the geographical area, coal reserves and other geological
information;

(b) particulars of the mine infrastructure;

(c) particulars of mining operations conducted by the prior allottee, if any, including details of the personnel
engaged;

(d) particulars of the secured creditors, along with details of dues towards secured creditors as on the date of
receipt of the notification referred in sub-rule (1) of rule 9;

(e) particulars of all contracts relevant to the mining operations;

(f) particulars of any entitlement to mining lease, all statutory licenses, permits, permissions, approvals or
consents relevant to the mining operations;

(g) balance sheet and profit and loss accounts, auditor’s reports and other financial information;
(h) _ particulars of movable property used in connection with the mining operations.

 (4) The nominated authority may seek information regarding any Schedule I coal mine from any person other than
the prior allottee, including secured creditors, auditors, counterparties to contracts and the designated custodian and such
person shall provide such information sought within the period as specified by the nominated authority and such person
shall be under an obligation to provide the information as required by the nominated authority.

 (5) The person who fails to provide information requested by the nominated authority under this rule shall be liable
for penalties under section 24 of the Ordinance.

 (6) The nominated authority shall finalise a written dossier that is, the mine dossier for each Schedule I coal mines,
based on the information received from prior allottee under sub-rule (1) of rule 9 or information received from persons
other than the prior allottee under sub-rule (4) of rule 9.
 [art ears 3(i)] FRA HT UIA > STATE 19

(7) The nominated authority may update the mine dossier from time to time, on its own accord or upon receiving a
direction from the Central Government in this regard.

 10. Auction.—(1) The nominated authority shall conduct the auction of Schedule I coal mines in the manner
specified in the Ordinance, these rules, and any other order issued by the Central Government in this regard.

 (2) In respect of Schedule I coal mines, for which the Central Government has specified auction under clause (a) of
sub-rule (2) of rule 8, the nominated authority shall prepare a document for the tendering process, that is, the tender
document.

 (3) Each tender documen t may include such information as the nominated authority may consider expedient for the
purposes of auction including —

(a) _ the particulars of specified end use, if any;
(b) the mine dossier containing particulars of the Schedule I coal mine;

(c) the terms and conditions associated with the public auction, including the floor price, eligibility conditions,
the process of conduct of auction and other related information;

(d) the request for proposal;
(e) agreements proposed to be entered into with the successful bidder.
 (4) The nominated authority shall comply with the following procedure while conducting auction, namely:-

(a) Electronic auction.—The process of auction of Schedule I coal mines shall be conducted through
electronic auction, in accordance with the Ordinance, these rules, the tender document and orders issued by
the Central Government, if any.

(b) Tender process.—(A) The tender process shall be a two stage process comprising of—
(i) technical bid; and
(ii) financial bid.

 (B) The technical bid shall be for the purpose of qualification and the financial bid shall be for the purpose of
determination of the successful bidder.

 (c)  Eligibility—The nominated authority shall specify the applicable eligibility conditions for participation in
auction in the tender document and the same may include —

(i) technical and financial qualifications of the participants in the auction;
(ii) compliance with the procedure specified for the auction process; and
(iii) requirement to provide security, guarantee.

 (d) A person who is eligible under sub-section (3) of section 4 of the Ordinance shall also meet the following
eligibility criteria, namely:—

(i) a company eligible to bid for any Schedule II coal mine under sub-section (3) of Section 4 of the
Ordinance shall have incurred an expenditure of not less than eighty per cent of the total project cost
of the unit or phase of the specified end use plant for which the company is bidding,

Explanation. — For the purposes of this sub-clause in case the end use project is being commissioned in
units or phases and one or more units or phases are eligible under the provisions of this sub-clause, the
other unit or phase shall also be eligible provided that not less than forty per cent expenditure of the
cost has been incurred for such other unit or phase;

(ii) a company eligible to bid for any Schedule III coal mine under sub-section (3) of Section 4 of the
Ordinance shall have incurred an expenditure of not less than sixty per cent of the total project cost of
the unit or phase of the specified end use plant for which the company is bidding,

Explanation. — For the purposes of this sub-clause in case the end use project is being commissioned in
units or phases and one or more units or phases are eligible under the provisions of this sub-clause, the
other unit or phase shall also be eligible provided that not less than thirty per cent expenditure of the
cost has been incurred for such other unit or phase;

(iti) capacity of the specified end use project shall be in proportion to the capacity of the Schedule II coal
mine or Schedule III coal mine, as the case may be, for which a company is bidding;
20 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(iv) in case a company is the successful bidder, then the entitlement to receive coal pursuant to such coal
linkage shall stand proportionately reduced on the basis of the requirement of coal being met from the
mine allocated to such company;

(v) for the purposes of sub-clauses (i) and (ii), the total project cost and expenditure incurred shall be
determined on the basis of a certificate issued by the relevant company, duly certified by the statutory
auditors and/ or secured creditors, if any, of the relevant company.

 (5) The nominated authority may also specify the maximum number of mines or coal reserves or both that may be
allocated to a company or its subsidiary or associate companies based on the criteria specified by the Central
Government.

 (6) The nominated authority may take into consideration such recommendations, findings or reports, including that
of any committee of the Central Government, and any order issued by the Central Government as it may deem expedient
in determining the floor price, pursuant to sub-section (5) of section 8 of the Ordinance.

 (7) The nominated authority shall issue a public notice for the auction in at least one Hindi and one English
language national newspaper and such public notice shall specify the manner in which the tender document shall be
obtained.

 (8) The participants in the tender process shall be required to make payment of non-refundable fee of five lakh
rupees for each Schedule I coal mine.

 (9) Upon completion of the public auction process, the nominated authority shall forward its recommendations to
the Central Government with regard to the selection of successful bidder.

 (10) Upon receipt of such recommendation the Central Government may direct the nominated authority to issue a
vesting order in favour of the successful bidder or may provide such other binding directions to the nominated authority
as may be deemed appropriate.

11. Allotment.—(1) The nominated authority shall conduct the allotment of Schedule I coal mine in the manner
specified in the Ordinance, these rules, and any other order issued by the Central Government in this regard.
 (2) The nominated authority shall specify the maximum number of mines or coal reserves or both that may be
allotted to a Government company or corporation of a State based on the criteria specified by the Central Government.
 (3) In respect of Schedule I coal mines for which the Central Government has specified allotment under clause (a)
of sub-rule (2) of rule 8, the nominated authority shall prepare an allotment document that is, the allotment document.
 (4) Each allotment document shall include such information as the nominated authority may consider expedient for
the purposes of allotment and may include-

(a) the particulars of specified end use, if any;

(b) the mine dossier containing particulars of the Schedule I coal mine;

(c) the terms and conditions associated with the allotment, including the reserve price, eligibility conditions,

the process of conduct of allotment and other related information;

(d) agreements proposed to be entered into with the successful allottee.

 (5) The nominated authority shall issue a public notice inviting applications from a Government company or

corporation eligible under section 5 of the Ordinance in at least one Hindi and one English language national newspaper
and the nominated authority may make arrangements for wide dissemination of the allotment document to the
prospective applicants.

 (6) The allotment document shall specify the norms for allotment and such norms may include the following,
namely:-

(a) progress of development of coal blocks by the applicant in the past;

(b) financial details of the applicant, including the net-worth and turnover;

(c) technical capabilities of the applicant and the technology proposed to be used for mining;
(d) _ the end-use towards which the coal is proposed to be utilised;

(e) demand-supply gap;

(f) assessment of requirements of the State;

(g) incase of utilisation of the coal towards any specified end use-
 [art ears 3(i)] FRA HT UIA > STATE 21

(i) state of preparedness of the end use facility;
(ii) proximity of the end use facility to the relevant coal mine;

(iii) in case of generation of power being the specified end-use, the per-capita power availability in the State
of the applicant company.

 (7) The nominated authority may take into consideration such recommendations, findings or reports, including that
of any committee of the Central Government, and any order issued by the Central Government as it may deem expedient
in determining the reserve price, pursuant to sub-section (5) of section 8 of the Ordinance.

 (8) The nominated authority shall forward its recommendations to the Central Government with regard to the
selection of the allottee.

 (9) Upon receipt of such recommendation, the Central Government may direct the nominated authority to issue an
allotment order in favour of the successful allottee or may provide such other binding directions to the nominated
authority as may be deemed appropriate.

12. Allotment on the basis of tariff based competitive bidding for power projects.- Notwithstanding anything
contained in rules 8, 10 or 11, the Central Government may in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (1) of
section 5 of the Ordinance, allot any Schedule I coal mine to any company recommended for such allotment by the
Government of India in the Ministry of Power, which henceforth may be awarded a power project based on competitive
bid for tariff, on such terms and conditions as the Central Government may deem expedient.

 (2) The Central Government shall notify a list of such Schedule I coal mines which would be available for allotment
under this rule and may also specify the terms and conditions for such allotment.

 13. Transition through vesting and allotment.- (1) The successful bidder in accordance with the provisions of
tule 10 or the allottee in accordance with the provision of rule 11 or rule 12, that is, the successful allocatee shall be
entitled to receive a vesting order or an allotment order, as the case may be.

 (2) In the event that the successful allocatee is the same as the prior allottee, then-

(a) the successful allocatee shall be entitled to receive a vesting order or an allotment order, as the case may
be, only after it has made payment of the applicable additional levy within the due date;

(b) the successful allocatee shall immediately inform its secured creditors in writing, who may elect to
continue with the facility agreement in accordance with the provisions of clause (a) of sub-section (1) of
section 12 of the Ordinance;

(c) The successful allocatee shall continue the mining operations in the manner specified in sub-section (10)
of section 8 and sub-section (11) of section 8 of the Ordinance, as applicable.

 (3) In case the successful allocatee is not the same as the prior allottee then-
(a) _ the prior allottee shall be entitled to receive the proceeds in the manner provided in rule 15;
(b) the successful allocatee shall-

(i) inform the prior allottee in writing to commence negotiations to own or utilise any movable property
used in coal mining operations on such terms and conditions as may be mutually agreed to by them in
accordance with the provisions of section 10 of the Ordinance;

(ii) inform the nominated authority in writing, prior to issuance of the vesting order or allotment order, as
the case may be, regarding its intention to continue and adopt any contract which may be existing with
any prior allottee;

(iii) on receipt of such information from the successful allocatee, the nominated authority shall include the
vesting of such contracts in the vesting order or the allotment order, as the case may be, in accordance
with the provisions of section 11 of the Ordinance.

 (4) In accordance with the provisions of sub-section (6) of section 8 of the Ordinance, the successful bidder or
allottee shall be required to provide a performance bank guarantee for such amount as may be specified by the Central
Government or the nominated authority and such performance bank guarantee may, inter alia, provide for the following,
namely:-

(i) it shall be unconditional and irrevocable;

(ii) it shall b e linked with the milestones for the development of the coal mine till it reaches its peak rated
capacity as specified in the approved mine plan as may be specified by the Central Government; and

(iii) upon invocation of the performance bank guarantee, the payment should be made immediately without
any demur, reservation, caveat, protest or recourse.
 22 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(5) The successful allocatee shall enter into an agreement with the nominated authority wherein the terms and
conditions of the allocation shall be specified.

 (6) The vesting order or allotment order shall be cancelled by the nominated authority in case of breach of terms of
the agreement entered under the provisions of sub-rule (5) of rule 13, misrepresentation of facts, violation of the
provisions of the Ordinance and these rules, or in the event of cancellation of mining lease under any other law in force.

 (7) Successful allocatee shall be entitled to take possession of the relevant Schedule I coal mine and commence
mining operations in the manner specified in sub-section (7) of section 8 of the Ordinance and the vesting order or the
allotment order, as the case may be.

 14. Manner of determination of compensation to the prior allottee and lodging of the registered sale deeds.-
(1) The compensation payable to the prior allottee shall be determined by the nominated authority in accordance with the
provisions of section 16 of the Ordinance and for the said purpose the nominated authority may —

(a) seek information regarding the written down value of the mine infrastructure as reflected in the statutorily
audited balance sheet in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 8 and sub-section (2)
of section 16 of the Ordinance; and

(b) seek assistance from the Central Government or experts regarding determination of compensation
payable to the prior allottee in terms of sub-section (2) of section 6 of the Ordinance.

 (2) The prior allottee shall lodge the registered sale deeds or its certified copy or both with respect to the Schedule I
coal mines with the nominated authority in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 16 of the
Ordinance, within the time specified by the nominated authority in this regard.

 15. Priority of disbursal of proceeds to persons other than the prior allottee.- (1) In accordance with the
provisions of section 9 of the Ordinance, the proceeds arising out of land and mine infrastructure in relation to a Schedule
I coal mine shall be disbursed priority wise in the following order, namely:-

(a) payment to secured creditors in accordance with the provisions of clause (a) of section 9 of the
Ordinance;

Explanation.- In case where there are more than one secured creditors and the proceeds arising out of the
land and mine infrastructure is not sufficient for full satisfaction of their claims, then the nominated
authority shall pay such creditors in proportion to their secured claims.

 (b) all revenues, taxes, cess, additional levy and rates due from the prior allottee to the Central Government
or a State Government or to a local authority at the relevant date, and having become due and payable
within the twelve months immediately before that date, with respect to the relevant Schedule I coal mine.

 (2) Determination of claims.- (a) The nominated authority may invite persons other than the prior allottee to
submit their claims with proof of their respective claims within a fixed time period to receive payments under this rule,
through publication in at least one English and one Hindi language national newspaper.

 (b) every claimant, who fails to file a claim or appropriate proof of the claim within the time specified by the
nominated authority, shall not be entitled for the disbursements made by the nominated authority;

(c) upon receipt of the aforementioned claims, the nominated authority shall arrange the claims in the order
of priority specified in sub-rule (1) rule 15 and examine the same in accordance with such order of
priorities;

(d) the nominated authority shall after such investigation as may, in its opinion be necessary, determine the
nature and extent of such claims and may by an order in writing, admit or reject the claim in whole or in
part;

(e) in the event of any difference regarding determination of claims in accordance with the order of priority,
the matter shall be referred to the Central Government and the decision of the Central Government in this
regard shall be binding on the nominated authority.

 (3) Manner of disbursement.- The payments referred to in this rule shall be made through the bank account
specified by the persons entitled to receive such payments upon verification of the identity of such persons and the claims
made by such persons, including the secured creditors as the case may be.

 16. Determination of title to movable property.- (1) The procedure specified in sub-rule (2) of rule 15 shall apply,
mutatis mutandis, with respect to determination of title to movable property by the nominated authority in pursuance of
the provisos to sub-section (5) of section 10 of the Ordinance.

 (2) If the movable property is disposed off by the successful bidder or allottee in accordance with the provisions of
sub-section (5) of section 10, the owner or lessee of such movable property may establish the title of movable property
on the basis of the following documents, namely:-
 [art ears 3(i)] FRA HT UIA > STATE 23

(a) original bills, invoices, receipts in favour of such owner;
(b) any document evidencing such transfer;
(c) entries in books of accounts of the such owner.

 17. Re-auction and re-allotment.- (1) In case any Schedule I coal mine is not allocated pursuant to rule 10 or rule
11, as the case may be, on account of any reason whatsoever, the nominated authority shall have the power to re-initiate
the auction in accordance with rule 10 or allotment in accordance with rule 11, as the case may be, with respect to such
Schedule I coal mine, provided the nominated authority has not received any other order under sub-rule (2) of rule 8 from
the Central Government with respect to such Schedule I coal mine.

 (2) In case the Central Government has issued a fresh order with respect to any Schedule I coal mine under sub-rule
(1), then the nominated authority shall act in accordance with such order and the provisions of rule 10 or rule 11, as the
case may be shall apply mutatis mutandis.

 CHAPTER IV: ADDITIONAL LEVY

18. Additional levy.- (1) The additional levy with respect to the coal extracted from any Schedule II coal mine till
the 24" September, 2014 (inclusive of the 24"" September, 2014), shall be deposited by the prior allottee with the Central
Government on or before the 31‘' December, 2014.

 (2) The additional levy with respect to the coal extracted from any Schedule II coal mine after the 24'" September,
2014 till the 31 March, 2015 (inclusive of the 31 March, 2015), shall be deposited by the prior allottee with the Central
Government on or before the 30" June, 2015.

 (3) The additional levy shall be deposited in an account specified by the Central Government by way of a demand
draft, banker’s cheque or any other electronic means, including real time gross settlement or national electronic funds
transfer.

 CHAPTER V: CERTAIN ARRANGEMENTS

19. Arrangements for optimal utilisation of coal mines.- (1) A successful bidder or allottee or a coal linkage
holder proposing to enter into any agreements or arrangements referred to in sub-section (1) section 20 of the Ordinance
shall make an application to the Central Government in writing.

 (2) The application referred to in sub-rule (1) shall include the complete particulars of the following, namely:-
(a) parties to the proposed agreements or arrangements;
(b) the proposed agreements or arrangements; and

(c) the manner in which such agreements or arrangements would achieve optimal utilisation of coal mines
and cost efficiencies.

 (3) The Central Government may seek such further information regarding the proposed agreement or arrangements
as it may deem fit.

 (4) The Central Government may after such investigation as may, in its opinion be necessary, by an order in
writing, grant its approval or reject the proposed agreement or arrangements, in whole or in part.

 (5) Upon execution of such agreements or arrangements, a certified copy of the same shall be deposited with the
Central Government within fifteen business days of such execution.

 20. Utilisation of coal for any other plant of the successful allocatee.- (1) A successful bidder or allottee
proposing to utilise the coal mined from a particular Schedule I coal mine for any of the other plants of such successful
bidder or allottee or its subsidiary company for common specified end use in accordance with the provisions of sub-
section (2) of section 20 of the Ordinance, shall provide prior intimation to the Central Government in writing.

 (2) The intimation referred in sub-rule (1) shall be provided at least thirty business days prior to the intended date of
such utilisation.

 (3) The Central Government may seek further information regarding such utilisation as it may deem fit and may
impose such terms and conditions as may be found necessary.

CHAPTER VI: COMMISSIONER OF PAYMENTS

21. Appointment of the Commissioner of Payments.- (1) Central Government shall appoint the Commissioner of
Payments in accordance with the provisions of section 15 of the Ordinance.

 (2) The Commissioner of Payments may be a full time position, a part time position or may be designated as an
additional charge, as determined by the Central Government.
 24 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

22. Office of the Commissioner of Payments.- (1) The Central Government may specify—

(a) the number, designation, roles and functions of the officers and staff to assist the Commissioner of
Payments in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 15 of the Ordinance; and

(b) the manner of appointment of the officers and staff through direct recruitment, deputation, contract, or
assignment from other departments or organisations.

 (2) The Central Government may make such budgetary allocation as it may deem fit, for discharge of the functions
by the Commissioner of Payments and the office of the Commissioner of Payments.

 (3) The Commissioner of Payments shall exercise powers as Head of the Department in terms of the General
Financial rules and Delegation of Financial Power rules and he may designate one of the officers working under him as
Head of Office.

 23. Condition of service of the Commissioner of Payments and the Commissioner’s Officers and Staff.- (1)
 The conditions of service of the Commissioner of Payments and the officers and staff, shall be regulated in accordance
with such terms of employment, including the laws, rules, regulations and contracts as are applicable to officers and
employees of the Central Government belonging to corresponding category and pay band, grade pay or scale of pay.

 (2) Officers assigned from other departments or organisations and posted with the Commissioner of Payments shall
be governed by the terms of employment and the rules applicable to them in their respective departments or organisations
belonging to corresponding category and pay band, grade pay or scale of pay.

 (3) Personnel appointed on contractual basis in the Commissioner of Payments shall be governed by their respective
terms of contr act with respect to their appointment.
 24, Powers and duties of the Commissioner of Payments.- (1) The Commissioner of Payments shall have such
powers as specified in the Ordinance or these rules.
 (2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, the Commissioner of Payments shall have the power or
duty, as the case may be, to—
(a) make payment to the prior allottee of an amount equal to the compensation determined by the nominated
authority;
(b) open, operate and maintain one or more bank accounts for discharge of its functions; and
(c) maintain records with respect to the disbursals made by the Commissioner of Payments for each Schedule
 I coal mine.
 (3) The Commissioner of Payments shall also have any other powers which may be consequential or incidental to

the functions of the commissioner of payments.

 25. Manner of payment.- The payments referred to in this rule shall be made through the bank account specified
by the persons entitled to receive such payments upon verification of the identity of such persons and the claims made by
such persons.

 CHAPTER VII: DESIGNATED CUSTODIAN

26. Appointment of the designated custodian.- (1) The Central Government may appoint any person as a
designated custodian for any Schedule I coal mine by notification under sub-section (1) section 18 of the Ordinance.

 (2) The Central Government may appoint different designated custodians for each Schedule I coal mine.

 (3) A designated custodian may appoint, with the prior approval of the Central Government, such other officers,
consultants and experts as may be necessary to assist it in the discharge of its functions.

 (4) The Central Government may, by an order, specify such matters as may be deemed expedient including the
following, namely:-

(a) the duration of appointment of the designated custodian, which may be extended by the Central
Government from time to time, if necessary;

(b) _ the specific actions, if any which the designated custodian shall be required to take with respect to each
Schedule I mine entrusted with the designated custodian;

(c) in case the designated custodian undertakes mining operations, the manner of disposal of the coal mined
by the designated custodian.

 (5) The Central Government may enter into an operations and management agreement with the designated
custodian.
 [art ears 3(i)] FRA HT UIA > STATE 25

27. Possession by the designated custodian.- (1) The designated custodian shall be entitled to take control and
possession of the relevant Schedule I coal mine through an order to the prior allottee of the relevant coal mine under the
Ordinance.

 (2) At the time of taking over the possession of the relevant Schedule I coal mine, the designated custodian shall
prepare a list of assets constituting the relevant Schedule I coal mine and such list of assets shall be furnished to the
Central Government and the prior allottee.

 (3) In case of a Schedule II coal mine, if so directed by the designated custodian, the prior allottee shall hold the
relevant Schedule II coal mine in trust for the designated custodian until the designated custodian assumes possession of
the relevant Schedule II coal mine.

 28. Operation and management plan.- (1) The designated custodian shall prepare a detailed operations and
management plan for each Schedule I coal mine entrusted with the designated custodian and submit such operations and
management plan to the Central Government within such time as may be specified by the Central Government which
shall not exceed thirty business days.

 (2) The operations and management plan shall contain details regarding-
(a) the manner in which the designated custodian shall operate and manage the relevant Schedule I coal
mine;
(b) incase of any Schedule I coal mine, the operations and management plan shall also include particulars of

any action that the designated custodian may take under sub-section (2) of section 19 of the Ordinance;

(c) _ the particulars of total cost that may be spent by the designated custodian in implementing the operations
and management plan;

(d) the number of personnel that the designated custodian employs or hires for implementing the operations
and management plan;

(e) in the event the designated custodian undertakes mining operations and disposes coal in the manner
specified by the Central Government, then the amount that may be received by the designated custodian;

(f) — manner of transfer of operation and management of Schedule I coal mines from designated custodian to a
third party in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (6) of section 19 of the Ordinance.

 (3) The Central Government may make modifications to the operations and management plan and communicate the
final operations and management plan to the designated custodian which shall be binding on the designated custodian
and the Central Government may at any time require the designated custodian to modify the operations and management
plan.

 29. Cost, revenues and fee.- (1) The cost incurred by the designated custodian in operationalising the relevant coal
mines including cost of obtaining statutory clearances shall be reimbursed by the Central Government.

 (2) Any revenue which may accrue to the designated custodian shall be deposited with the Central Government.

 (3) The designated custodian shall be entitled to a fee to defray his costs as may be specified by the Central
Government.

 30. Powers of the designated custodian.- (1) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers specified under

section 19 of the Ordinance the designated custodian shall have the power to-
(a) carry on coal mining operations in any Schedule II coal mine;
(b) appoint a manager and other personnel for the carrying out of coal mining operations;
(c) enter, or authorise any other person to enter any land or premises of Schedule II coal mine entrusted to it;

(d) _ take such action as may be necessary for the recovery of any debt due to the Schedule II coal mines, in
accordance with the provisions of sub-section (3) of section 19 of the Ordinance;

(e) in case the designated custodian receives any money due to Schedule II coal mines, in accordance with
the provisions of sub-section (3) of section 19 of the Ordinance, which pertains to a transaction made at
any time before the appointed date, the designated custodian shall disburse such money to the prior
allocatee after making payments in accordance with the provision of section 9 of the Ordinance and such
verifications as may be necessary;

(f) incur any expenditure, including the payment of taxes, duties, cess and rates to the Government or to any
local authority, provided such expenditure are not due on account of the prior allottee:
26 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

Provided further that in case such expenditure is necessary for operation and management of the mine,
the designated custodian may incur the same with the prior approval of the Central Government;

(g) require any prior allottee of the Schedule II coal mine entrusted with it, or any third party to provide such
information and documents (regarding relevant Schedule II coal mine entrusted with it), as it may think
expedient;

(h) any other powers which may be consequential or incidental to the functions of the designated custodian
specified in the Ordinance and these rules.

 (2) The designated custodian shall have the power to take any action to preserve any Schedule I coal mine entrusted
with it, in case of any emergent situation and any such action shall be immediately intimated in writing to the Central
Government by the designated custodian.

 (3) The Central Government may at any time direct the designated custodian to hand over possession, management
and control of any of the mines referred to it to a person selected through the process of auction or allotment as per the
provisions of the Ordinance and these rules.

 CHAPTER VIII: MISCELLANEOUS

31. If any person submits or produces any document to the Central Government or any authority under the
Ordinance or these rules, such document shall be accompanied by an affidavit regarding its genuineness and if it is
discovered subsequently that such document is false or incorrect, he shall be liable under the law for the time being in
force.

 32. Audit.- The nominated authority, the Commissioner of Payments and the designated custodian shall be subject
to audit by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India.

33. Conduct and discipline.- The nominated authority, the Commissioner of Payments the designated custodian
and personnel, officers and staff working with the nominated authority, the Commissioner of Payment and the designated
custodian shall be subject to conduct and disciplinary rules as may be applicable to them in accordance with the law or
tules for the time being in force.

 [F. No. 11022/10/2014-CA-I]
VIVEK BHARADWAJ, Jt. Secy.

Printed by the Manager, Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054.
 arest Po Slo Veto-33004/99 REGD. No. D. L.-33004/99

Che Gazette of India

EXTRAORDINARY
art [lave 3—3u-waue (ii)
PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (ii)

wifirere & wearieret
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

a 1144) ae facet, gear, aref 21, 2018/THTETA 30, 1939
No. 1144] NEW DELHI, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2018/PHALGUNA 30, 1939
 Pe FATT
ae feet, 21 aT, 2018

Bram. 1274(a)—ataat are (faire sada) astra, 2015 (2015 a 11) A art 18
Sra (1) FT Te ora er aT Het eu AalT ATH UE Hemet, Ble Shear fares ar erie
TTA - | RAAT ST HT VATA Ua WaT A Sq Taafaa afters gat aed &

1. TT ITeAT — IV/7 (aed)

 [rt. a. ATatT 2-13016/1/2018-atet72]
use pare fear, Aart aT
MINISTRY OF COAL
NOTIFICATION
New Delhi, the 21st March, 2018

8.0. 1271(E).—In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 18 of the Coal
Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of 2015), the Central Government hereby appoints Chairman, Coal
India Ltd. as a designated custodian to manage and operate the following Schedule-I coal mine, namely:-

1. Gare-Palma-IV/7 (Chhattisgarh)
 [F. No. CBA2-13016/1/2018-CBA2]
RAJESH KUMAR SINHA, Jt. Secy.

 1664 GI/2018

Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi- 110054. ALO K Digitally signed

by ALOK KUMAR

Date: 2018.03.28
KUMA 10:06:32 +05'30'
MPS/2/2022-MPS
Government of India
Ministry of Coal
(MPS Section)

Tree yd

Room No. 622-A, Shastri Bhawan,
New Delhi, dated 28th October, 2022

Sub: Guidelines for the Management of Mines discontinued/ abandoned/
closed before the year 2009.

 A large number of coal mines were discontinued/abandoned/closed before

2009 when 1S mine closure guidelines were issued by the Ministry of Coal.
 However, these guidelines were silent about them. There is a need to close these
mines scientifically in such a manner that they provide benefit to the community,
prevent illegal mining, ensure the safety and repurposing of the mined-out land.
 Therefore, guidelines are being issued to provide guidance to all coal companies
(including lignite) having discontinued/ abandoned/ closed mines after the
nationalization of coal mines till 27" August 2009 (date of issuance of first coal
mines closure guidelines). Copy of the same is enclosed. The guidelines intend to
only provide an overall framework for the closure of mines and the details of final
implementation plans are to be finalized and approved by the respective Company
Boards. The  overall goal of the guidelines is to restore the mined-out land as far as
possible to its pre-mining stage, bring ecological balance and purposefully reutilise
the land for the benefit of the country.

 2. It is requested to take further necessary action in compliance of these
guidelines and submit ATR to this Ministry on Quarterly basis.

 This issues with the approval of the Competent Authority. \/
Encl: As above Pye CE
(Hitlar Singh)

Under Secretary to the Govt. of India
E-mail: hitlar.singh85@nic.in

1 The Chairman, CIL, Kolkata

2. CMDs of all Subsidiaries of CIL
3. CMD, SCCL

4 CMD, NLCIL

Copy to:

1. The Secretary, MoEF&CC, New Delhi
2. The Director General, DGMS, Dhanbad
3. The Coal Controller, New Delhi

. NIC - to upload on portal of MoC

5. All sections of this Ministry

NS
F. No. MPS/02/2022-MPS
Government of India

Ministry of Coal
[MPS Section]
KREEKK
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi
Dated: 28" October, 2022
OFFICE MEMORANDUM

Subject: Guidelines for the Management of Mines discontinued/abandoned/closed before
the year 2009

 A large number of coal mines were discontinued/abandoned/closed before 2009 when
1* mine closure guidelines were issued by the Ministry of Coal. However, these guidelines
were silent about them. There is a need to close these mines scientifically in such a manner that
they provide benefit to the community, prevent illegal mining, ensure the safety and
repurposing of the mined-out land. Therefore, the following guidelines are being issued to
provide guidance to all coal companies (including lignite) having discontinued/ abandoned/
closed mines after the nationalization of coal mines till 27" August 2009 (date of issuance of
first coal mines closure guidelines). The guidelines intend to only provide an overall framework
for the closure of mines and the details of final implementation plans are to be finalized and
approved by the respective Company Boards. The overall goal of the guidelines is to restore
the mined-out land as far as possible to its pre-mining stage, bring ecological balance and
purposefully reutilise the land for the benefit of the country.

 1. Categorisation of non-operational mines -

In continuation to various circulars issued by DGMS and industry-accepted norms, the
following categories will now be defined as specified below -

1.1. Discontinued Mines: Discontinued mines mean such working in a mine as have been
discontinued for any reason and are inaccessible or rendered inaccessible but are likely
to be worked again. These mines can be re-opened as per provisions of CMR (Reg.-6)
and Colliery Control Amendment Rule-2021 (Rule no.9 (ii)).

 1.2. Abandoned Mines: Abandoned mines mean such working as have been abandoned
with no intention of working in the future for which the owner of the mine has already
submitted a notice to the Chief Inspector of Mines, Regional Inspector, and District
Magistrate about abandonment in the prescribed format (Reg. no. 5 of CMR, 2017).

 1.3. Closed Mines: Closed mines are those mines for which the owner/agent/manager has
submitted notice of closure in the prescribed format (under CMR-2017, Reg.-5) to the
Chief Inspector of Mines, Regional Inspector and District Magistrate and has also
obtained the mine closure certificate from Coal Controller (As per mine closure
guidelines-2020).

 However, prior to the implementation of Mine Closure guidelines-2009, closed mines
may be considered as those mines for which the owner of the mine has already
submitted a notice to the Chief Inspector of Mines, Regional Inspector and District
Magistrate about the closure in the prescribed format (Form-1 of Regulation — 6 of
CMR-1957), and the extractable reserve as per mining plan has been exhausted.

 1|Page
2.1.2.

2.1.4.

2.2:

2.2.1.

 Steps to be taken by mine owners to manage the non-operational mines -

Discontinued/Abandoned mines -

- Mine re-operationalization: The owner of the mine shall explore possibilities to

operationalize the concerned mines through various models, additional exploration if
required and prepare a detailed action plan after due consultation ensuring transparency
and objectivity. EC if required may be obtained following the guidelines of MoEFCC
for reopening the mines.

 Approval of the re-operationalization plan: The re-operationalization plan must be
approved by the company board.

 - Modification in Mining Plan: Concerned Coal Company will modify the mining plan

within 1 year of coming into force these guidelines if required.

 Temporary mine closure plan: If the mine cannot be operationalized after initiatives
taken under Para 2.1.1, then the owner of the mine shall prepare a temporary mine
closure plan. A temporary mine closure plan would contain the mine closure activities
such as protective works, safety measures, and any other required activity as per Para
8.10.1. of the Guidelines of preparation of Mining Plan & Mine Closure Plan dated 29"
May 2020, in such a manner that if technology permits in the future, mining can be
restarted. Mine owners should include short-term economic activities in the temporary
closure plan without damaging the seams/reserves available.

. Approval of temporary mine closure plan: The temporary closure plan must: be

approved by the company board. Also, the plan must include details of efforts
undertaken to operationalize mine as per Para 2.1.1. The coal mine owners are required
to obtain the approval for Temporary mine closure pian within one year from the date
of issuance of these guidelines. In case temporary mine closure plan is not prepared by
CMPDI, then it may be vetted by a third-party expert agency approved by the central
government, like Central Mine Planning and Design Institute Ltd. (CMPDI), National
Environment Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), Indian Institute of Technology
(IIT-ISM) etc. before submitting it to the Company Board.

- Implementation of temporary closure plan: After the approval of the mine closure

plan, the owner of mine will carry out mine closure activities as detailed in the
temporary mine closure plan within 3 years, failing which appropriate action would be
taken against the mine owner.

. The Government may at any time before the closure of the mine, require certain

activities to be included in the mine closure plans, which it may consider necessary for
the safety and conservation of the environment or in compliance with any modification/
amendment in the relevant legislation.

 Closed Mines -

Final mine closure plan: In the case of closed mines, the owner of the concerned mine
shall prepare a Final mine closure plan. The Final Mine closure plan should be prepared
as per the Guidelines for preparing the Mining Plan & Mine Closure plan dated 29""
May 2020. However, only the mine closure part is to be prepared in case of these mines.

 2|Page
2.2.2.

2.2.3.

2.2.4.

 2.2.5.

 3.1.

3.2.

3.3.

 Approval of Final mine closure plan: The Final mine closure plan has to be approved
by the company board. The mine owners shall ensure mine closure as per the mine
closure plan approved by the Company Board. The coal mine owners are required to
obtain the approval of the Final mine closure plan within one year from the date of
issuance of these guidelines. In case final mine closure plan is not prepared by CMPDI,
then it may be vetted by a third-party expert agency approved by the central
government, like Central Mine Planning and Design Institute Ltd. (CMPDI), National
Environment Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), Indian Institute of Technology
(IIT-ISM) etc. before submitting it to the Company Board.

 Implementation of Final mine closure plan: After the approval of the Company
Board, the owner of mine will carry out mine closure activities as detailed in the Final
mine closure plan within 5 years failing which appropriate action would be taken
against the mine owner.

 Alternate use of reclaimed Land: After the closure of the mine, on the reclaimed land
various project-specific economic repurposing activities can be carried out or reclaimed
land to be leased out as per Ministry of Coal policy guidelines dated 22nd April 2022
for use of land acquired under the Coal Bearing Area (Acquisition & Development)
Act, 1957.

 The Government may at any time before the closure of the mine require certain
activities to be included in the mine closure plans, which it may consider necessary for
the safety and conservation of the environment or in compliance with any modification/
amendment in the relevant legislation.

 Social support measures -

The air, water, and soil quality of the region surrounding 5 km of the discontinued/
abandoned/ closed mines should be monitored as per MoEFCC/CPCB defined
acceptable standards and it is mandated to ensure that the closure plan must include all
such activities needed to control the pollution from the concerned mines.

 The health camps must be organized on monthly basis to monitor the health of the
population residing within 5 km of the discontinued/ abandoned/ closed mines with a
special focus on respiratory diseases such as silicosis etc. The identified patients must
be linked to local health administration for further treatment if required.

 A careful consideration is to be given to provide reskilling to the willing workers as per
their need for their gainful employment.

 Financial provision-

The financial provision for the closure activities of both temporary and final mine
closure plans of the mines is to be made by the respective Coal Companies. Closure
cost is to be estimated based on the required activities as per para 8.10.1 of guidelines
for the preparation of the Mining Plan and Mine Closure Plan dated 29"" May 2020 for
implementing the approved closure plan. However, Coal India Ltd. may consider to
levy additional fee on per tonne basis to be paid by the coal consumers to meet the cost
of mine closure with the approval of Board and to provide funding for those subsidiaries
which are not able to fund the closure of these mines.

 3|Page
5.1.

 5.2.

 5.3.

Exceptions -

In certain cases, there are more than one mine below the same surface land. One mine
may have been closed due to exhaustion of resources but other mines are running. In
such cases, final mine closure activities related to surtace land may have to be deferred
till the closing of all the mines.

 A mine can be planned and worked covering only a part of a Coal Block. The present
mine can be extended to cover the remaining part of the Coal Block in the future. Hence,
Final Mine Closure activities for the present mine area may be deferred.

 However, progressive closure activities are to be carried out as per Mine closure
guidelines 2020 for both the above cases.

 Maintenance of records & submission of returns -

The owner shall maintain all the records of works done for the closure of the mine and
keep them available till the final closure certificate is obtained from the competent
authority. DGPS survey of Abandoned/Discontinued mines linked to the national grid
to be kept available.

 Monitoring -

CCO to carry out the inspection of all the mines, check the records maintained by the
owner of the work done and give written observation. Concerned mine authorities
should submit compliance to the observations made. Also, Coal companies are to
submit a quarterly report of work done towards closure to CCO. The Ministry of Coal
will do a quarterly review of the progress of the closure of mines.

 Nothing in present guidelines shall absolve the owner of the mine from fulfilling various
st atutory requirements under other applicable statutes and obligations. Further,
guidelines are without any prejudice to any other relevant rules and regulations, such
as those issued by the state government, Ministry of environment, forest & climate
change, Ministry of Labour, and employment.

 Yi heles

(M. Nagaraju)
Additional Secretary to the Government of India

Mine Owners
1. Secretary, MoEF&CC

2. DG, DGMS
3. Coal Controller

4|Page
eset Ao Sto Ueto-33004/99 REGD. NO. D. L.-33004/99

Z ort
Che Gazette of Gndia

EXTRAORDINARY
am Il—avgs 3—34-aue (ii)
PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (ii)
 Wiftrenre 8 venrigra
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

a 655) ae facet, Gan, Art 30, 2015/aa 9, 1937
No. 655] NEW DELHI, MONDAY, MARCH 30, 2015 /CHAITRA 9, 1937

Bara HATH
afer
ae feet, 30 ary, 2015

 WT.AM.B77(A).—TaAlT AHS, Urs aT HAA TA (fasra Sareea) fecha aeareet, 2014 (2014 ar 7) Ht arr
18 &t scare (1) art eet aera ar WaT He ST ATS TAT IVI, aetoTA ater (see), TIteT aT (Ae) TAT
Tare (Are) HAA Aa = Tera Us afCarers & feru frathea arte aatq 01.04.2015 & farraferfaa areott F yeaa
QM & at > are aa seated feafetad aafsaat ar fart aréer azar ardea areer aret stat am arafatece
afters & ea Ft ges acct Z, ate:

wm. a. PITA GT TAT UST HT ATA Tet ara feaa | aTafAface afcery a ATT

é

1 Te Tea IVIg ame, aro Shear frre

aetara-a19 4H yaa feo, arfive ara te efter fe.

 aw : ¢ >

(ee) wa wHEtetfat (az) - wea, are Sfear fer]

aera, are Sfeat ferire

['er.a. 13016/2/2015-att-IIT

1449 G1/2015 (1)
2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(ii)]

MINISTRY OF COAL
NOTIFICATION
New Delhi, the 30th March, 2015

S.O. 877(E). — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 18 of the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Second Ordinance, 2014 (7 of 2014), the Central Government hereby appoints following persons as
designated custodian to manage and operate Gare Palma IV/1, Ardhagram, Gotitoria (East), Gotitoria (West) and
Parbatpur (Central) coal mines from the appointed date i.e. 01.04.2015 till the issuance of vesting order or allotment
order, as mentioned against the name of each mine in the table below, namely :—

SL No. Name of the coal mine and the state where the mine | Name of the designated custodian
is located
1 Gare Palma IV/1 — Chhattisgarh Chairman, Coal India Limited
2 Ardhagram — West Bengal Managing Director, OCL Iron & Steel Ltd.
3-4 Gotitoria (East) and Gotitoria (West) | Chairman, Coal India Limited
— Madhya Pradesh
5 Parbatpur (Central) — Jharkhand Chairman, Coal India Limited

 [F. No. 13016/2/2015-CA-III ]
VIVEK BHARADWAYJ, Jt. Secy.

Printed by the Manager, Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054.
 raft a. H.ua.- 33004/99 REGD. NO. D. L.-33004/99

Che Gazette of india

Alsi. -S1.Vet.-31.-01062020-219681
CG-DL-E-01062020-219681

AATATT
EXTRAORDINARY
art I—@ue 3—34-@u¢ (i)
PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (i)
aiferare & safer
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

a. 254] ae fave, marx, TE 29, 2020/s%ss 8, 1942
No. 254] NEW DELHI, FRIDAY, MAY 29, 2020/JYAISTHA 8, 1942

BTA FATT
afererar
ae feet, 29 HE, 2020

ara. fA. 331 (a1). eats Aare ars site atest (Fraare sire fates) arferfary, 1957 (1957
at 67) At are 13 art Tad achat HT aT Hed EU atte Rarra fraH, 1960 F aire aetterst HOT
feu wage Prafeatad Raa sardt S tatt:—

1. afereg are site wre. (1) Sat Pera ar aiferet as att Raza (Herter) fA 2020 21
(2) aa frat F rar sreatera & rare, Fass F Searh eTert FT aT BT Tact ST

2. afta Rar frre 1960 (rad sae cea yea fae Het WaT @) F, Prae 2 F ema we
Perfect Fart ce SUT stata:

2. oRearerd. (1) a Raat F, ta te east & area safer Ft a,
(i) “afattaa” are az afta (free az fares) afataaa, 1957 (1957 #1 67) & afar 2;

(ii) “saree Aha” ar art atferrers AT aret 11 aw ae aT arden oreer F fates freer ar

aferre Ft are 17 & & aettt aT areerr ates aT rae ara (Fare Sota) ateraay 2015
(2015 =r 11) & atefts ot Peart ATT AT ATA ST ATS AT BLS AKA TA AT TAA AT VT TATA HLA

2314 GI/2020 (1)
2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

& foro Pret oo ar ort aaa are faett ae fate & ada art area ® areaa & afterra at
fermaree aera At atti fere ater;

(iii) “Tey” & =a Prat Ft arpa 1 4 faa fee ved 2:

(iv) “qaarhre Rares asa & arzer ar ferare]e aver Pet fh aa FH Ge wares HT ST
qearg da At we faega fraré fared ast qaanftchta, qaifttr, ado, are errer ar feraree
Fagan, aregiatteree, Brer-sshtfaast gar we aa F Pu ae eer ware & Shear aeaoy, aft
fearBre ar care aT aa Hater F eg Baa aa fer att afeafers 2;

(v) “ade aaa” & arr & oT Peet ot Oa aeaert ar tert aT aaa TP Sarerat & = fare Peet oa aT
aot are fret oft eer A afer Ft are 4 At So-arer (1) refs aatera aero aR aT Ser
aaa, art tet at azarfeate, & fear at ares Pear war et

ersten — sa Gs Varta & fern, -

(%) Gert TET ATH aI Ga TSH tae afarara Ft are 237% aeftt sara TT faat a fre Pest
ft Foret at seta aay aaa Ff afeafers et er

(@) aaa aat & faeae at aaarita aed eu, aserr wee ar yaar aaah ar aaa Te, zara
a adie ged are ot aa ta oefhe at aga ar cet aren art aa wofeeerst & ore aria ara
TTT

(vi) “aRasraT wearan” 2 oe Ht arfertrr AY ervey 11 a ae rel ere ser aT at Ho aT PT
& arafedi, Brae vat F afafrae Fi ar 17 & ® ade araer at feraree aren aa areata Z aT
area ara fasta (sada) afaftat 2015 (2015 ar 11) & aete are art ar ae aeftara aT
arafedt ar errer ar ferrarse & fer yaeror Tare AT Gar Wares He fers ory Feet area fafer
att arg ater aR vedere afearfert SAT;

(vil) “Ta” ate “Ter Ferra” BT eh HHT: TA SETI GT aed Tat afer, 1890 (1890 ar 9) H Saar
&

(vill) “TAY & sa Peavat & sorter eat arise B;

(ix) “arr” & afar Ft art aftr 21

(2) St great ate vat ar, ST sat ope S ate oie at & Pe afar ar sare aes aad TE
alrear sath frre, 2017 at rarer are (fasta saat) atferfara, 2015 (2015 ar 11) at sam aftr
aare au faaat, F oarite & set at Ser, ST oer aferrat at Pert F wae: Sea SN”

3. 7a Perit H, fers 8 Fy, -

() See are stem “SAT TEATT IV,” 2 CATT TS Mee, aH AT TAT “AEATT IV site TeaTT |VH” TS STAT;
ax

(@) “ae Ges TE,” eat FH CITA VS “TT TES ae TSA area A-ae-aa-Te” Med, TS STAT

4. yet Porat, seara Il & weara, Prafefad aera staearite fear sre, erarta:-
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

“weaa TI

aati Pare
21%. AR] Sar- (1) Sa Fat teas IN, AeaTT V aa eas VIA Peet ara & Ste ee ft Sa eas
sora Brrer ar feraree & are Haat APA Ize aT SAT
(2) afer fearra (aettert) Fert 2020 ary ata Ft arta site Sas TST HTT AT ferarse aT
Peet at eer are FH Gsern sarees wear site aarrfaee Peat Gare Hea Sa aeaTA HF Toa Seer
ofert err
2ta@- Terr Tarert ste yates Peare dare HEAT — (1) TAA Tareas HOT site arts Rare dare
aed & fru, aati yeaa Praferfaa ae aaa -
(i) Usa wear F Tern agate at yaar aaa A-ae-ae-ae afore ata ae feet oak ar
Face Bt AAT; AT
(i) afafrre At are 4 At so-arer (1) gat Teg afte Ader aca are fafafee ar
afergird Pret aecdt at fra ee ae; aT
(iii) atfarfrara At aver 4 Ft So-aret (1) Gat ae area afer Peet vere after
ant fae Be aa
(2) aredta aane ater tte Retreat tart ars ar ate ears are Pattee Peet
ft rer are via arr aT STAT AaersT TTRerT * ferw areca are ofa  arqare St Bre aff
ser wares Pear ST are eae aren Rare dare Ft sash
(3) 9 sa-feera (1) & aefter tert ares Her ATT Tere ahs, aot at aftencr dare aaat six
notre ft tear ar seta wed eu sit sa sale & erat sas are UH Feu ae yaar atas, |
aes ates car aes at Gaare qt wo a yee wed en, fart ad Ft ween sardt & chest aa
are feu ae art Ft fare sae aafaa aardt are ae a din are & tex Seat area rf oe
feured dhteae feats, wa acard jodi ate Ter aT BT eT UT
(4) Yaar ware TT Sty aT Sst Te aT Ther aa ee ert Ie, GT AT Tet eT, Tar oat,
art ar aftercor ft yaar waters aa ATA are wa @last area & aay aah rt Gra F
ara-arat aot arer Feu we ars Ft are sega wah
(5) sa-feera (1) & fafee oR vearas, zarfeafe afer ar afterer, atari fearé F fer
We arpet & fra Sarat erm
217. Taerr Tarerst ae aah Pare dare Her & fore verte sores eettars-caesisdt Et
frost ft arqaet Vi F fates arrat ste ofharet & arqare aeror waretag Hea site aati Rare
care eet & fore saris yaar arf ar ATTA aah”

5. Wer Prenat H, frert 22 F,-

(i) Sa-Feere (4) H, “areteet ore STA ae” erect F area site “ary Tq eat Bh fer kr AH” great site
eat A TATA SA aret ATT ser ATT RAT STOTT; SAT

(ii) Ta-Frra (4%), (47a), (5) are (6) er are Fa STOTT
4 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

6. Heat Fat H, frre 225 & care oe, Prafefad faa ca ore, state:-

“22 F - Gat ATT H ATA GAA Taras —ahrot Rarara (etter) faa 2020 ary a A at
wera At safer rears Tea:

(%) Gat AAT FH aa Pars Bre At Gast Tarver TS eT Pea TT. ST-

(i) afer Ft art 5 Ft Sa-aret (2) SS (a) F sells aqaried st ate rs 22 | % qa St
aT
(ii) afar Fi arr 5 Ft So are (2) # GS (@) HIG aT fas 22 w HH aes Gat AAT
care eer, Ta Tar Fret & fore ase ae are EIT Toe a TATE ST:
 Wed aad Tarra aftr area (astra) Faw 2020 ures ara a WS feu aaa vet F aqare
feo saree at, A sateen feu art ew Aer aaa Gers Ata are are Tea TA TST
(@) Gert Tet Wares & cheat fers Gers Arora H HTS Af STAT SS (=) H spare Pa STE

22 wH—GaA Arora F re UST aH ater eat Kt ary atefh Wore — (1) SAAT ANAT TATE HA,
warttaco atx arc & foro Fare 22 wae (mH) FH TIS (Il) BH sels TST aa are ear FT
SUT ae Tore TAT a Perey Hears ALHTT HT TeTe HT TTT
(2) asa aeare Tore H eet sh Soto a fore etry AHS aT TS ATS TT TH
(3) eta aeare ST-faara (1) F APS wort & aera ar Sa-Pae (2) F fafee sore F soto
fore tsa AHS A TT Tea HT VAT Tea * ra ara AY aT eta & is are Ft arate & ftaz Saar
ay ar saw feat Fert Bett:

 We HAT Tea US aaa Bt are afea wissen ae at fara ferfaa wa A reas
 PRAT STOTT TAT UST ACHE AT eT BT a Pe Pear aT”
7. oat Fant #, fra 22@ & cara ox faeaferfad fae car seam arate

“22a. GAT ATA IAT HEAT BH Aya — (1) afafaara Ft are 5 Fr Saar (2) H AS (@) HTT
ade aftated aera ator & ra cere Gert Stor Sat fare atefta dare At reat ite yaar
fraré dare er ae Are At afer At fae aqates &h fore vega Ft aes

Wea oa aaa F et afar Ft arr 17% % aft artet avast ar fRarét area at ade
ares aT acer ft arfeeprat aA ara & Tt arti Pearé Gare it TE SF ate SH Tf Pee
frre 21a oa-faae (2) ATA S, GATT ATT TATE HET SAT ETT HEA few we are At safer
Ue ardent avast, arf ares, atest area at afeepaar, att ft area at, At arta & fart soroafh

(2) sa-fram (1) & seit Gat Aor sare HA *& Fer, Tatar wearer fee ar Pape ae aT:
(i) ae Brees ore Praferfera agare ate srqera Tr:
(*) feafterra aqart arart afafaam, 1956 (1956 ar 3) 4t are 4 & afte
feafterra aqart art art arerat wa feet oft dearer afea we Fatt

afafias, wa wed afafiae or ue oe afatiae are at eae aes erie
ar fafa feaftarrs art aden eat estat F feat ar arrraree aaret F
[art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

feaft ar art Heft feat ar afearst Harare feat ar area ACHE aT ATT
a avez ate aera ore Peet fh feeakrercra ar seat art aged Fre Ht aaTesT

TEM, ate
(@) feat ore eer & are Gare aa A Taeft we A abs ae ar ahs reqs; aT
(ii) Gat AT care Her & fers eetars- TaesSst are gears GAT AAT Tae HOT ATT
afte
(3) Fattere-waestsdht ea frat Ft ape Vi fafea arerat site orate & arqare Weary WeTaT
am
(4) Tears Gers Ata dare Ft seaft:-
(i) Farm 21a agar dare ars Pears & aaTe I;
(ii) Sa are Ft hte aeare are ST Tart Be TAS AGATE; site
(iii) arte Ata & stax fete ara ® ferv:
Wee at ArT F car Ata A Te Age va aa ST afeafers fear at aa, oT
arrat at farce tea a ate Bree fro ase acer art Se aes aT AT -7a TT

fran war at ate ae Serre Pear war at fH ae Wa faeqa aa > few aaa Get Ved HAT
aed zl

(5) Theatre vearae ate agarore aah aT Gat AAT Gare HA ATT AfseeT Fraferfera * few
sacarft Srt:-
(i) Gert Ars F au ae ares & ferv;
(ii) we Fe sa-Frary (2) % as (i) F Patties ada ae aaa art aah aT aT ATTAT
care wer are after arr sa dae F te aa art ost anteater GAT
AAT ak FT TE ZI
(6) Theater vera Gert Aa arated & fore wet atferart ar orferart, re att acare art
afergira fear var at, et frearferfers ara weqa aM, sata:-

(i) Dar ae arrest are chia, str sft eter ears are Fafa ee Pear war at; az

(ii) Teast vedas & TAT T-7e cat ater a PH aaa ator Ht area fed aar satH aha a Te
aét 2 a afe aaa arr & aia areared Pear war aa cette ATT A aree a, TT T-Paet
(4) ® Gz (iil) & Weg F ARs cosa aa are TA Oh ATT TI
(7) Tat afererh ar orferarh, art ator area art Ft area a iat fea Ft safe & flac Gat AAT
wT AGA HOTT AT Gert AltA F Sater Hr Ser Sar aT AT StH AST areata HAT:
aed sated Stet fer ft safe Fae oat any ent wa aaa ata at wae a at aT
a feu aaa AT AT TTT A vega Heat He Geare Ua aera ar surfers arr Pefert
Pref oft aettertt a are FH Sacred erate qatera aert Stora Ted Her AT aera F ay ae
(8) sa-faaa (7) & aefte are oft areer ar Peer a cafe WRatrea verras a araer ar freer FT

aa Wa art Stet fea & fae WS aver ar safer Pger F Gaerne & fore ahs ae AT AAT
al
6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(9) Getter & fore ars ft artes ore Sr Te, ala Aas Raa vearae Ft aah site fret feat
atax avast ar freer aft gS, Sera ar seared He HAT site STH Sate A ets aeare aT fats ifaw
erm”
8, Wat fant H, faa 22e¢ site Pere 220 ar aire fea STOTT
9. Ha frat F, ere 225 & gearra, fraferferd faa sta-earite feo ort, erata:-

“298. Gad ara F Saray — (1) sa-are (3) & Sadat & aeta, aqarfed Gart ara
Peet oft soto a ara A afar wearas aqated & foro faa 22@ % sofa (6) & afte

afegira afer ar urfrart & aqates & foro flaw 22@ % apare def Gat AAT Vedat
OT

(2) sa-faaa (1) & aefte sora Praferfere fret oft arene oe feo ae, erarfar:-

(i) aaa wore F aftada;

(ii) edipa afaeoe aaa F af aac aart & fore ot are Ft eitec Pratita
aaa Fup at ware witera afters 2;

(ii) = TeraatoRada:

(iv) eter ate tare aaa & feat A

(v) aftstt ar acer;

(vi) qatar azar & fer:

(vil) — feerara et aa A tere At Gs wT PF ere HT SAT

(vii) 9 ara ae eer At ahaa oat F azarae & ferw; ar

(ix) Da wep areas oT ft Hee Aare art Pratite Pea war at:
weg arated arrer arat ar satat Be araet A, aes Arora H Pret ot tatters
fern arafifee orferert ar etter acer aT ys aqated atfera grr foray
qRoraered arafafes orferart ar atte aeare atte oR wearas, st sft

ATAeT a, * Sta eu anata F fattfee aes six of ar aaat areal F
aRada drat zi

(3) sa-fraa (1) # fafea feet ava art ec ef ofa seas aqaifed Gat apr F
Prafetad vg aftada at aaa & ate se aad & arqare fates weave ata ane BT TTT TH
afd ac eu araer fetae Bt sede He AHA S, TATA:

(i) ver aa tae a are aha
(ii) Sat ret AT ae a cara Her F aR; aT
(iii) Tet aa & fax aaearer Ft feafe A oRadat

224. wea vedfa— wats yearas art aaa ata H are At wast seahd, Gara ape ar
aratied afererh ar surfer ar setter ACHE AT UST ATS HT Veda are At aeq safe seat
[art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

aotert ar ory aad, sa Prat ar sects errr site Ot Gert AAT, Aettas ar ae oad weg
aca feet AAT STAT
10. ya frat 4, frre 24 F, oo-frae (5) & cere frafefad so-fae etoeafta fear smo,
aata:-
“(6) UST WHIT GAA TET Ba Hat araaa OT HUh, Ta araea & Foes & few ferfaa F ua

aren ater Bath”
11. fram 24 F sotaco — yer frat fra 24 4H, sore (1) & cera, fated sofort
ataearite ear sea, arate:

(2) af aaa oe & adie & fers so-faaa (1) F fee aad & sftax Pew ae Peet
HAST BT UST ACH SIRT TET AAT erat At aTet|s F Tea aera vet Pear ara S aT, ST ae AT rahe
TH AT Usa ACH ST Sa Aas H aver TR Pest at TH, SaA A TT ot deat at, Sa oe AT arate
aat ge aaett sreth”
12. Wat fant H, sear IV & gerra, Prefer aeara atacearite fear sre, stata:

“sears IVa
aeare H eles Vet ah raat atta y, H aeter A Here site fear] Ysa aqarla-ae-|aT TET
Tart HOt ITA BET Saelt THAT

40%. Fa qeara At waeaat: a aera Sade acare aes Wet GA ras ahs Z, aaa F
are atx frase ar Geer rear A-AS-aA TET WaT BTA TT ATT SAT
40a. qaern srqafe-ag-aart We & fre arated — (1) ardet ares ar fart araer ar artes arear far
area az, qarfeafe, wa ane arafedt aq | a ved a A Ue araae TA aves ate Peet ft ae
aera searastt & ara-ara Wa afer ar ora F are vega aor, re ft css aca fares
 Re:
Wed Usa ATH, FIR Sars HA BU, Ba-fras 4 fahifee wre oh cearast vega wer Ft araeaHat
F fofrer = aah
Wee Fe ste Pe ue ane arafect, afatias Ft are 4 Ft so-arer (1) & Fae Teg & ares Soh aT
frace ae tena @, fare aac A, tat aaa ardfedt faa 214 % agar q-aante Ror Gare eer
aie fae 21a AGA GAA ATT BH AAAS VATS GAT VS Tart HA BH few Haat HUT se
HeaTs IV SoA Aaa, WT GAT TS TST HLA AT SAAT MAT TT ATT SPT
(2) Tae aq a-ae-aa VE Vara HA fore gers areata Praferfera  aepare St:

(®) Ta Bee ea AT tara are Ha;

(@) Taerr aaa vara wet & fer artfera aeft ceavat ster fe faa 9 > aceite fataree

Feat Tat g; ae

(7) Fram 20 & afta fatafee oftate sar af

407. [aero aqaa-ag-aaet Ve F fre aaa TTA At aA atte rer —
8 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(1) Yaert saaft-ag-art ve vara set} few arava orf Ft cee aca are afsedtafa Ft
srastt

(2) tsa Aare, at ware a Tt we arses fret Ft arta & aed fer At safer aftae att |
wen a Ht aero aaa fore frarfeact aeth

(3) Frere 14, frre 16, fre 18, fore 19 ate Fae 21 sade Oa Yer aaa Ue ase SET
404. Gaerr Tater HAT — (1) Taerr aera faera fearfeat sty az, Sen arated, sfafaaa Ar art
7 fates safe & afta, fam 21a % aaqare Sa Tareas HOTT, Faas Rear dare Fa siz
fram 220% aqare aaa fre Gat AAT VEIT FATT

 40S. GAT TATA BAT — (1) STAT ATA HT AAT SA STA I, SH ara edt Weer aqarla-ae-aaas VE
al aera Tar faera frarfead wea a fore fare 22 & afta fafafee aaa ter vara wen & fore arafert
aeft rears   ara-ary WS aeearaat AT way TAS TST AC HTT AT TET TTT

Wed Usa aa, BET HT afaferfara Hee |v, fram 22 F fafafee are ft ears Wega wer
 At aracraan F frre 3 aaah

Wed Fe site Pe Sah array tse aH, aT AHS HY AAT A, SAT WaT BA
fora aaa Tet facta F Ot area ord, ot ft ae Ste sae, afercite ax aah

(2) Tse areas aah gare & yr ea cearasr Fret Ft area & atest fos at seater afte arpa |
yea 2a aaa oat flere fared aofh

(3) fram 22m, 226%, 224, 224, 22E., 224, 27, 29%, 30, 32, 33, 36, 37, 37%, 38 Ae 40 F
sada, aaa oRadat afea, ta aaa vat az vase SAT

405. qaeror arqarfa ar aeteftacor — (1) 9aeror Warerst TT wea aT & ferme: Yer arpa A-ae-
wat ar fare && seit aero arpa ar vation dae araar Gaerr agai ware St A HA a
aa cea fort cee Sar site frat Frarqare Hare afeafera Sht-

(&) vapor & are;

(@) araren are feu Te Peery Tareas aah sare aT Peas;

() SUTe Ser aT SAT;

(a) afte Raat ft dear Bree foro eet ares Pear WaT TT; at

(=) Gaerr ert wer aes & fore atfers afaice aah Ft aera Sacra
(2) asa acer aétwom aaefh araaa ore are Ft afsredtpfe srh ora ara At dia fea Ft safer F
ataz asain
(3) wétftecr aaet arta sa aa, free fore qaert aaa & fore araeat rar war Z, % aaa
Tae ae aH BT wT WS at Peettex Fe a-aroeet are Are a ars SAT SMT
(4) asa azar, sa-faam (1) # fafafes aaa-dier & ave aero arqarhe  aaftecor & fore aaa
veda Her FH eu facta ar are awe ae, Teg Fe FH arses Yer atari aaa Sta SB Geet Pear war
Fall
[art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

(5) Yaerr agate & adttreco & fore araaa ar yer rq At safe ware F eet sey acHTT
are fcert Pear sunt ate afe ca arate atest araeat ar farera set Pear oat & aT aaah FT
sa sate am, at aferere Ft aren 7 At So-arer (2) & refer Ter aaah & arte At arafer F

afer at af ar sa sate an free feo araes Pear war @, aT ot aa a, avatar at Gat aaa
ara

408. aaa oe ar vatefterer — (1) Gaerr sar a-ae-aers Te aes Gara oe aditteeo a aaa
aaa ot fore 245 az fare 24@ & aq, zarfeata, artaré Ft orosft

13. He fant F, frre 45 4, Gs (a) Fea 1, fafa Gs car aeTT, sata:

“(a 7) Gat Tareas Fram 220 & area care ate aed, frre 22e. & aefts satatta siz
frre 225% areftes aeitfera, Gat Ara & areas fee STAT”

14, et Frat H, fra 52 ar atte Pear Seat
15. Wer faaat 4, sears X & genre, frafefaa wears stavearfte Pear sre, stata:-
“aeaya Xi
afer
76. arfea- =a fora & soaert ar Peet ft were ar seoraa afeaare Ft arer 21 Ft sa-aret (2) F
srsat Hapa Sears ST |”
16. Wer faa & are | A, ven a aaa, Prefered ved aacearite Pra sre, aate-

“yeq y
AQAT eT
err aaa t-ae-arr TS yart Het & fare araaa
[Fata 40% Fa]
10 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

5: rere ar (Het arafedt aot ar fara ar ara) sofa sereacHat qT
aca ¢ fe afte farre fae, 1960 & aefte qatar aqaa-ae-SA TET. ee (amet arafectt
aeoett ar fara er ATA) aT Tava FAT STI
2. afast Rarra fram, 1960 * frre 40m & aeqare sar ware Sa Ft AN TAT HAT AT TE ZI
3. aafera fare frarqare @:-
(i) [or Tat aes aah HT ATA
(ii) FAT aaah Trea HT, AeA sat ar FTA Fe?
(iii) HOT Referer wares At areata wht sere At ores
(iv) arate rears Ft THAT
(v) aa Ba ahs FH apTarat FY fafa area sarah ar-car At Heat ate are (ae ArT) aT
als GAT TET AT Slt TS MTA-TAL

(vi) afe araeat wer At atta aH arden ore Geer aaarfa vet @, we secre rar aa
carter fe Fa SH AT AT UH TTT ST RATS BH TET BH ere vega far war BI

(vil) & afte ar afast six ara Breer aaah Tae ATT TST SI
(viii) qaeror arqarfea aco AT erates rere fore Yer star A-ae-aerst Ter araeret ZI
(ix) Se ata Ft tar reer aaa Tae HAT ATSAT 21
(x) Ta aa sate ree feo geen aaarfa-ae-aert ver arafera 21 (rem, avecay, a4,
aa a., wale a., at are)
(xi) () FAT arataeH Ta Se ast fora wat afer Sf ree few sa Geert aqarle Ft
HALAHA SF?
(@) afe vet, at eat Sas Teer Water are Hea fer ah caret siz afersrar Ft
aente afore Ft 21 ae tar é, at cart ate afersrar tt ferfera aeafe area At aT
(xii) Fraferfere ar fafere dest ea eu aa ar afore ala:
(®) arcrat arte sre orepfte fasroarsit & aatfera aa At fea
(@) wa, dat areas F, Tia ar aT aA aS Te arr we Rea fore FF aaa Pa
Ta & at yew as aT ah fra fees & few araes far wa Z, Seat aaa
Sree HAT GAT FEAT
uadt. — st eat F ot ar ete Rea asert teat afeafera ehhh
(7) aa eat are H, aft ae, Mot ae Hers SEAT AAT ATA
(4) te eat & feo wat ars At aa vat aT Heer aaa Saeed aT, at ale araea fa

ae ert ar are Aft carer ar ahr-car ferret Geer agar ar aeret ver erat Ft
atarait & avatar Soa Fre At seq ater aaa TS aT Tae arpa ast FT
[art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

arat arta, afe are 2, aa At har & area-ara aaa Pao ae ae at eta eT
veda ft art arfet
(xiii) fort eat & fore araest Pear war @, See asa F Prarqgeare Perfeed Peat sat ariee:
 (*) afe aa ar Hester THM Soeee FA Se Ta A te HT ATH, WH aT TAT
saa ae feet At Gar teat site Aormet Sreae F Fates Pear ara are
uadt.- fra aa & feo area fear wat 3 saa ae aster Heat afar
erm

(8) aa aaa & Areal FH, Vor ale HeTS HSA seats SU THT Te aT SMTA STAT
arfet

(T) BSCSAH THAT AT TT THM AT St HATA A, ST ATTA H At Aecaq Aas
ate orepfter fasroarat, art atte cere fees At ater aaa arth Atar-Saratt er
faeare car feet oft recat, cya six fee fg ar fags a ast ara fatgsit
Ft ot sate EU FATS TS STAT AAT TT AT SATAT STAT ATVT

(xiv) wan srry FH arene afar, 1961 & aefta zearefea aeraa arene Paacoft Great we feu
TUS, Ae aa FH BIT HT AST THAT HT HT TATA PRAT ST AAT 2

(xv) User aeare  afererhear aa fax ahaa sat aat ar faa, Brae aren ar feet off
afer ar saat fea SST 2:

() Wee & at yaar aaa & area at 2;
(@) fore fore tect at arrest Pear oT par S Peed weet AT Pear Tar z;
(71) wap ara Ft araast aT AT TNT SI

(xvi) afeafera fea ft wee, ae are et am

(xvii) af aratae rat At Bava HAT ares Z, TT Sah Ter sie aaa fat aqua are F
aaa rat arieu; ate ae UH Vater Pape HAT Area Z, GT Wa vserH HT ATA, Seah agar, Ta
frat aqua ft waft six safe fafatee ft oft ariee ate sear weal va tere era are

(xviii) aretaen 2 fetta ares
(xix) See 2H fAfee afer & fee aor area At fafarfean
(xx) ate aeq Fafa eat ar arat aaa RA aaah Vea AAT ATEAT ZI

(xxi) [aerr aaarfa-ae-aert Te & fers ardast vega wea a fee wrfape seavearcnal BT orfereet Het
eu ane aratedt at & wrap Ta) HST ATT AT 2

H/ aa roo aed FH Sax few ae an at  S ate ares are aa atest Aw aa Alea Peet st
ary Saret HY Tete BTA Fer dare ZI
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

. Weaet Haret UH PaaS es a Hafert Stat ae
2. FAIS FAS AH HT THAT, TT AT Sree St, Aat Sra States Be fore term Pear Sra

arfen, fara wa a ca Tae aaaa Peat aT AT 40 Sea AT SAS HA SM

3. Wet area & are faeqa ator ate exerts areata dts oidat F tere Pear Sra SI”

17. Her Prat FH, epee V vera, Praferfad aqat sta: carte Ft oreatt:-

‘ATE VI

[Fae 2171(2) TAT 224(3)]

(sears ® fre ATaeS site whAT)
werta yet ahreacr & years & fare efter (weétz)
 GAT AAT FA HA ATS aPC yeaa fara Shs (wat)

1.
2.

2.0

arqeattrar
wears & far err
1.1 yearaa ® fer oat
1.2 chr ar at

1.2.1

seartds yearn aftrenenr fry <hr (UT)
1.2.1.1 faaraat At agar ste TTT

1.2.2 Gad ara dare He ae Tearfaa ahsencr > fora Shr (WaT)

1.2.2.1 faaroat At area ate TTT

1.3 ehtr ar fee
1.4 9 cht a aa
wears At aa eaHAT
2.1 area qaraatl

2.1.1

Rater area (fret)

2.4.2 aarttht aa Padres (frrg)
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

2.1.3 qr H aay (FH)
2.1.4 fasroat ® feu ara or
2.2 Ha ara ate aT Teer
2.2.1 atest ® favo az aftere & fer warren veer
2.2.2 fagerrorcre aTTeS
2.30 srard aadcaar, fivveun, ated, Haag ste STEHT
2.4 = Woracd veast Wore (TATA)
2.5 Yaaro (sien), Gast AAT ste YS AaeTa/aaTeraT Pearet Ar Toracar
2.6 areata vidaaar
3.0 Waratah
4.0 year shar
41 artes Paton afar
4.2 9 fora ra ft ofrar
4.3 area fro aa ST ae Geass OT
44 vars ofa aent
4.5 — vearfea werastararett er vent
5.0 WAT Tart AAT
5.10 Fear aT
5.2 yar es aearq Rad
5.30 wearrt ar feta frcedtercor/ rasta
54 waraarequt artnet % fore artars
5.5 zeta
6.0 — frarra fare dat
6.1 frotat fr afer
6.2 attr
7.0 ara afear

7.20 veraeff areat arr saat
10 years fice

waved, aaefiaré ar wa taee ae F aa} Perea, faa aftercot ate cerastararett
afed fatter wrearcat & oret srqe afet yaar siz aaa ars dare He are afc, ASAT
fore gear hte (Braet Sere Tear SATAN ST) Fanfare Ft a
14 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

ae scares F ite Ft ara terest aragrarat, Terasff yoracat argareart Tore sire ara s
ore ateft oiearstt wera ATaes are F Sere Peat wat a1 Shs & fafa seq &-

)   UraraT (frat Tea Ta St TT @) TAT SAle aaT AEATEI

@) Aa Haas — ANAT AL HAA ATA

a) werasft Area Trad aargvareast Wore (ATTA) |

=) fratcr az wears ait ofa

(3) araaat at de wor, fctaa, at a germ, aifaa caer ae

ire & aratearra & fer watt ar ater aie Gara Ta aag oat & aa F oes afer
% aye Ta sania ahaarera a fear Peer wet Sra ZI

fra ae ft rater faeare eee eu rears aT aE Tot ae fare ween cera , Teer etree
aie Tasers ofeat afeaferst 21 ca ae dts ofan F fh aor F arenes ate E-
a1 - waved afar art arate Doar Ft
AU DQ - wearers AY THethy TATEAT
am 3 - aratea Frater

1.14 wearer fac carat

za CATT AAT ATTSS FT TT HA ATA STOTT At Tea *& fore: fare ea eT aT ZI
oa Tome area F aca fea, vere aaect oo att fash aarea oT Pe ororeexfore Hat aT
aadt &, aéachra wat ar aaa (sede az aru fafa), ararect ea afataaat & acelin,
aot fatter At are 25 % aefte cRredied Para, aqeerd Feast Ga See AAT eT AAT

afeatera at aad 21 ere cater ar cafe are & cartes are Ware cacao At aaa Ae AT
afe ae cite ft ast veg arasapareit HY TT HAT 2

(
(
(T) Weare aT aT
(
(

12 amare

ae CA Tsar site Ga ASAT Tae HEA aT atfteweny & ere ales ar faeae Hear S TT
saat Pearé (starz) gar a Rasa Weare are feu Te aa AAT HT TATE HOTT! - AT: TE SAT
ara yearaet & fore feeder ar Prato aca eu te ant F at fase Ft Te V1 arate:

1. wearta yaar arftracor  yearers & fru she (wey)
2. GAT AAT TA HA AT BHT Bh wearers & fre Shs (ari)

 1.2.1 vearite yatert aftracor wearer & fore ehh

Pret ft qaerr afteroor (arate coeff area) at ast ara eat FH fees ae ert
arfew ar cares aaa fare dare aca fer Peet faferce aarp St at fret Paerosrar
after aftercr  ara aaa aT HT Hal Tara Yaseror after aot ytarrhts fears Tare
art & foro aragaen Tern Aare & few cease aadt 1 wie F Perea veqsit at pax Pear
ara aren —

a feferr (arf at aa att ether)
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

a era TAT

7 qeaehrs ase (AT Set TAT Ae)

a sa-aie fates ater, waeruaoe, faftas Pope
z. eefearl wis cera fat

a BATAT [TACT FATT OT

a wera seat

a aeaaettht tere

a aesifrratttrert errr
a. q-aarite atefert

z ararear, afte aarasest Heart
z aon, fefert oreaz ated fefert aret ar acfera weet & fore afar

1.2.1.1 fastest # agar, aya Ta eet

foaré dare eet F afeafera Perea A oR aah (Tae) aT THAT
ay Faeroe (five) afeafera 31 ss eat HF Gach are aera St oT at 21 Paros & fer araeasy
HET Ara sie Sra ST Ts are Ben faeqa wa a ATs TE B-

#1. oa aaah (ert):
#110 aprae aera agar
=. itive & aera sea facateraa, dea a angedT 4
Barats BrarasiRreat Perea aesthrreastRate afr tar
Peary ref oft ferore H areceh (revere) PEaft, AEA
a. area — we Fel aa sae afer At srarfer areenra wher, TSA

#12 oRatsear qaqa HT qa
m srrad reat aS rat aes Be aera aA 15 ae aT aT ars ATT
aa aaa aaa deavfavafteraa/ werfearrs F
rates & wr F aprae 15 aot cH Far vara Hea aver Aah gea/Aaret
afernrPat Ft Sar AAT ITT LAT ATT STOTT
T wane afte, at, ah sftarsva, atefert arrectar, ster wraferr aa,
Rratatiserct atstert cet era
#1.3 yaerr fafirce agra:
Co ohare waar (fet) at aregites Gaerr oRatsrrrat Ft asa are Water
a dated faforce aqara erat are
a erage terete Ft Rorettt ate aratearr
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

T Rraraitired steer az Rra-arfetie Peer

a quae, warars 43-101, Aateret aar waucnaeet feats sea
ATA SAAT ATA are Saag TAT HLT

z. amr a ae dts atari Reaté dare at we SM
ats searite Reoet (erat waar, ferret years arfe) Fr Farhi
(S.) Ae (A) HT AT HUT EU Het AN

a
1.4 afar aaeaas (Geen) & ara Hee:

Sg

Rar aaeaa BT Tater Br Tore, aragaenaratt Ft A areata arfet sar featé
aa eet, avatar afafian, gern Pare aan ast are fafa site cae Serrerat FH
feu ae feor-freert & aaa star aTeU Ses TFET TAT Yara sagas AT eyes TqTITCUT
AT ATT ATT STAT ATPRT Ses ST LAAT BHT ToT HF AKT AEA FH ATT ATT HAT ATFNTI
Rasa arrears & tara art Pears z:

eae Fafarce atest ar cara F cad eu afar faerrarat, a Ratsrar ata 2h fears eater Ft
apt aaa et arferi

ohana Preera/earet & ara ton, Terr arian fore orth Tare HAT

arr, arestasit eae, Barat, aesihraratsh, ts aor are & ager F ea TAT

Safer carat aa ate Cis FH TTA SH TTT HTH Sear H Pore ty H fers TTT
arate ® fer caret ar Ste

Avs & Ratet at white Heat car ater ear Rreavt arnst ar fageromr atx faetat saga
art arfemi

Haran qaarhrs Pore dare Hea TIT Bea ates ahaalS & fer wear aaeat & Shs ohatfers
wear car Pare Ft qorar afafera BAT!

 aha freerateartrat & ara sree aaariten Pearé oe saht fecoft & fore sat BTA

faoroara & Ferrera sat Ft ceare Ft we 3 ST Sa aera aT ae ere aaa E-

(i) Retest sia
(ii) ratPeferrt itt
(iii) Petre Aer six sftaréwart ATT
(iv) wafer UaTAT
(v) eragtisrttettstt wast

2.0 wath ae fasta (ater) :-
2.1 area ters agar

R. irieastas F aera seat favafearaa, deat & fara car aer favat -
Sfraréca fret off foe Fareed (Tareas) afore
[art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

a. oat (Refer), eae aie eeerae Sas ae aad facet A arae
fefivfeetreat at eae aaaer foe aie owe aitfiverediae areaa-ore
faPrareraaearet & rarer fare

T. 6 Are aie sae afer At arate ated wheres

2.2 cath ae fase (Aes) & fae aaa aT

co

wa fasrost at yaernseaite Rare dare aed] fer date cath attr oars F
PTAA 5 AT BT ATT as STAT TST

aafad eat Fara aed oe qaariae, seatfechifasr, Rate afer atx sftaréva fastest six
aerate co eT H FePIRwT art Pamtverrottarqaart
qearifeatarcairetarcrat + praca 5 sat a few aarftaa/aarea aferat a
fra fear sat

# aeram

2.3 vers dvd fru ate tre ada ak apart
2.3.1 cathy a fasta — years (sits):

a -pratare aah fore faery Atfers agar

i. we oasis at sa TAs aera-se fares F fro
ates / rare Peart Harare feat / wa ea

ii. atefta - 6 ATE aire saat atten Ft ara & eta Tierra
qo aratera aa & fare fate aqua & Prafetad aftates er aheT

i. q-aary Teer, APT site Stet SaTeaT H aaah pT

ii. q-aarite Rratat, afr atetert ate after tere Ft ora

iii. ATE, Seared, Rraratee, aerate, ats, atetas arf sa wasery FT

STANT Hed EU saeH FHT AtSet TA FAT
iv. yaar yaaa eeereoreit ate aero hare & ofr stam
v. 23st Fifer ster Ft caveat site yaar AT gar alsa Gare |e Ft

wea SAT

vi. wrepfte caret at aaenha wer ate sett ahs yea aaarita wer Ft
wee ETT

vi. aft Gaerr & aafeet Geer ster AY carer aa & few sg ate
Farrer HTT STATI

viii, BITAT / ATT AAT Ase Tae HEF Ta aT AT BT TATA SAT
7. arate sacar

R. aa Ht ytery pretreat At SETS HAT, THAT HT FT ATA ST TsTSY TATE
aAT|
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

ardt carat oz Peter Hear, ATEN, Wears ate ats aya oe Feather Hear
TAT HT ALT TAT HAT

ade afaart amare aa, ater Aaert ate q-aarhts atest Tare ate WeTT
aAT|

atta artcat sit feet are Ponies ast arat at dire, wlafert stk
wafer FAT

ATT Saag H TAT AAT ate Gero Star HT VPS site areqehert HAT

at srg acart fafraat sit fafeat ft srrear wear car Sar ATT
aAT|

Tse ae sass Pert F oa Wearat yaar site aftr saree FT
Feat FAT

Tartare ate areas Atsrat & fre ster & fag, aetar aie Garqara art
aa afro yaar at fafa eer At aertar ae aes HoT sie TaeTt
aera RITE Tae BAT

ata yaar At aera BT aaa Her few soees sivas, weeds
ate area yaar Reoret ar aera STATI

2.3.2 cHearhy aa faster — yates fears (sir):
aratars eta & ferg fafatiice ators agare

wR.

UH sey Tass at SAH Aes Aras Pa Prerrerayatea Fe PT-a
aifechtfaara / rqraee ear retifaarrat F arava feat / wae

6 Are ate sae afer AY arate & ater wera

wre dr Fre aA rg Fi Po ree

TTT TAT cot ate SoH HT STAT Hea ET fase aerst aed F
aie water Fh AtsraT Tava sire Se Foarfet AAT

ST aS Tae He Sete aH Tort at arpa ar Ae fears a ore Patt
area afea y-atiaen fafer tare BeAr

faftra qeatite caftat F va fare atic qot H feee area, aahtr
AIA, TAT, As sie TR atahtar are ateakera SI

Wher ae seeatas

Saeed Heart HAT siz caerulea rsa ser At TT Tae ATATI
at sam ster, saa satis eters afet 2et ate 3a aeeita orreart
HAT

Stet area are wT ae anata aiee-eat  Saaee Ponat ar yeast
wT
 [art I—ave 3(i)]

FIST BT UST» AATAT OT

iv.

 Vv.

vi.

 afta raaratt ar cat ars & fer soar At Reatfea Ft ofa ar Sea

Ser Tart, aT Paar FH fore Hecqect ar STAT HAT ake TATA TAT
aA carat eT PAT HAT BHT

seatax Praga cath, Gachrasue Satay site safes aeret AAT
ster Ft caveat, thors aera site Rate Tare HAT

wate RarSt BT CaCSTa HAT SAL SA ATTA PATI

 STH HT STAT FATS AT TALATT HEAT

usa att ss Fiat a ore Set ariel

¥ 2.3.3 wath aa faetast — Rate Sherr ate sftergva (area):
am. rate fee FIRE A ef

rasstas aera ora featerraaeat at zeae aaqea & fete
Tears et faoe A fear
ATTRA UH. S/T. AT SAH TATA FAT

aT,

starve F Ae alt ea/Pate sft / eardte fears / fa feehty separa eat
AT BTS eT ATT AT

atefta - 6 ATE aire saat atten Ft ara Beta ier asa

a. rater Sr Fare FAIRTRE argere 8 Prafa afeates ee fee

sitive, starve atx arisfiaréue 10, epfteréua, scare ear, fefirert
mremmradt wa Rate aft atreaax ar eata-ara

cardia Fagan, Stet veers eet, aracet faz sea arhsitarsca free sae
TTA

Haws Serares THT F ATA!

 7. aera seats

AEATSS STE HT STANT HUI SU Hla Tae FIAT, FATT AT TAT SATTATI
oRarsrrat ® fore aaa Hea atte Sftarsue ar frat ar Pape AAT

waa avarat, ster faye, Aq aaa ate featé aa seq afer
ohare oz Fa gee ar fer ear BI

arat tye Her = fore fafaer ohare site faferat ar sas STATI
cara fercar & fore Gare wr ATTA

# 2.3.4 cedtht aa fares — etert (Tay):
a. = raters aa & fore faery aes agar
20

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

we aeardt aera sear A ater A qterfers fever ake
Shitcaca = fatearest arr aaa WATT-7s ae AT A ATT ST AO
aay Ta aed ATAT STAT

6 Are ate sae afer AY arate & ater wera

a. raters or Fare AIRTSE args 8 Prater afeetes ear sree

caraphay TaN, Asst Saas ASAT SATA ST HTT AT AT SPT!
yaar yaaa eeereoreit ate aero hare & ofr stam

aaa creat F Peo aT Aes ate WoT afea Aaa Stet Ft eétear FT
Wea BAT

sare AY ae, Tees, aafera ferteat Ft wor Hear site sez Fargas SAT
arret / ad Gt A ATA

7. Pr soat

vi.

 vii.

viii.

 aaa feo ort are eat a date Strat & are F Tara wa HA fers
fafern fReatet, ager Pearet atx aft oftat et ator era

froarea art ® feu sara & Rater, qa aie areera ®& fore aaertt Ft
wacar, Ay, featé site fafern careat are HEAT TAT SAT TAT HAT

aaa Ft data aft ace F ster, are, vale, Au, Rare aie cea aT
HOT At Ses WHAT ATI

faarrart, uftaeadt, ert atx aceree orate witaa oifterh faeer
(frites) ar rant aed Eu ase eat FH aecaryot faerraratt ete Ararat ar
Rarrax Tay aatter rather HAT

Soha siz areqenert arf, arent & art site oR a aaa ates erat
a frepat a ay AAeay PATI

aaared, Ueltsert site ater ant fers are cari wer few dare quarter
At ASAT SAAT att SA aT ATI

crarphas aaa, TATA ahs AAT

wate err artearat % fre aatta each ar Tar TAT aie Sees Pfs
eT aa Fetes aT area aha Sera Ar Ta ars fore yaa ATI

* 2.3.5 wedtht a fares — werftarst (wash):
. rary dex Fre FAFAPRTRE srs arg

ireirsretas aera ora feeatrercaatear at sae sages Prater
a waters, waftart ate wer Aare vse Se fog F faaravsrarhrst +
ararax feat ar sah ager feat

atefta - 6 are aire saat afer Ft arafer & etre wikerer/aTerHa
 [art I—ave 3(i)]

FIST BT UST» AATAT OT

21

q.

% 3.0

m 3.1

rater Fe PAPAS ge 8 Pre stents etre

vii.

 ara we, vate A Saga, Ware eH & Aafeala aadt serdar
ster ar Faeqoror ear; TPT ceers SS Hea site Sat caveat Hear, aft
set atferet area site farerett Fea dare wear, afer set Pest ah Tora
HAT, WaTS Se AT PST SAT
aot arp ht Ft cartfet ea

sara fasroarat aatq wrearerar, Pare, sero aot aries ar faster itz
aot HAT, ote TATA ate Pearse feat ar AAT TAT, TT AT TTT
ATT Blt TATA AT TAT PATTAT

afeara az aintifern arere-aarrt aaa faacoveatea Serfearra/ fare fee
yeaa fart Fa Tae HAT

urea ate css iat a RR sacs grat Aree

yore a aafera teat, feer-frgert siz fae BT AAETATI

war oie sere

arts ahora, sat frartt ara, Set vate Sa Wet Gra Sora ster safer
CAT

art Het Ware (eaten stereo ate Peas ax afea) At Ga-epaar Sh ae of ate
saat Tora waa: Aftor seen fafa, as |e at fate ar ga: wht Arar fate
are at Te ah

seared Thar ares are aa F aga-fe are area At y-rersarrt aah
feafe # Rada

aot aaeq (eH)

Prafefad aaaz vara eet & fru ga Shite Ff aot ae’ ar sade afeafers Peat war

@

mi. art aa aqadt afen fag se afer Hart & fre aera Ft aaah

a. are ate ar Peart Hea Bh fre aaa Paros

T. we aT at wa aga afore ae ae zt fhe Aes at eet FF aqua
AMALAHATAT BHT TT TET HET Fl

a. eae sa-erae faeroatt & fea ze Sars SI

aa aaeg & areata arf

za aeq (Atva) & srtfera = FH ae Set ate Avs & ary Aa a aie Par -fasf
art & as af srt ater art & fH oes aaa aa A Pero ore eft safer
wae aortas Salt Taqat & set ara Heres site stat F feo aT aay ae
At Pearé dare aes Oe A Rar SAT are
22

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

3.2 faareat ft aravanard/sracre fares Ft der:
1.00 ORT Hara Se-erse SIT The (Gt afer ATH) |
2. @aarite fed dare aa B afeatera ares ea-arse FIA aTfeT (Ger arfers
ware)
3. eft ft dea, Ba ger A oe @, He Ue aaa ee-zise TT
aaa (sta), UH ea-sree ctu (ste) sar aTeT

4. ay due sa-area at tae A afeaterd err arfeul aos ar afar FT
aaa & aqare sre Err ar At aleatera Hear ATT

1.2.2 aaa apr Pa aftacn (wade) & gears & fore Sr

aaa ahr fate aftecor (ori) ter acer are aqaifed arrat site ofearat
ATA GAT AAT TAS HO TH aaa ast BT gat Are eat A fasrost sar
arfeu at Sah UT ATT GAT ASAT Gare He fore Peet Ht Re aa At at SA ae
Pret aero eros arth afteecot & ara aaa ATTA ST WHAT Zl ATTA WE SAA ASAT
 Tae He are ATH (WOAATAT) GAT ASAT BHT Ta-Tas RATE TAT HLA
fora arafera Aare & few coast & aad 21 ceaifin F afetea ceq afar arr
afer:

aftare six frac erat & fore aat AAT

frac ate aera erat a Yara ret aera

aftare six frac erat ar facae ores Tare STATI

fage erat & fore Taree ASAT

ert oRararratt ar catrht-arhe yeatrT

PICT STAT AL Tee ay aT TET

aftare site faa erat & fers ae wre hht ora site aTTATATI

afecard siz fare featet et tare eT

4a ad a4 49 AG A

1.2.2.1 faire carey & oe, aaa at art

wat ara dare wert F afeafee fasroat F after anaes (aaa) ate aati aa
Faeroe (five) afeafers Si scht Serra sea Bh aeT HT TH V1 erat At aaferat agar six
aaa oar sah fore ofeafera aferarat ar cater Are fear war 2:

a1. ofa aaeaas (@aat ahr)

@1.1 agaran fern area

co aaa sifiaetfa arent aa A ue aedtea/ wate fet ar
feaftraraa aqert avant afafaara, 1956 (1956 ar 3) Ft arr 4 & ait
feaftaraa aqara art art arerar ove Peet ot deat afea wae Ar
afafiaa, wa wedi afatae at a use afafaa aro earite ar frie
at can ae wa feaftarers art aqed anges feaft ar area ears art
wee A Aree Ae ATTA oa Pet ot fears aT EIT ST AST HIE
at ages Mert sea |
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

23

q1.2

@1.3

a. ated - 6 are aire sae afer Ft rae & Gera Tierra
Raa Aaah HT APAT

i. srt aen feat & ye ata F are 15 ad ar aa arate art aq
SMT Gat AAT Fae HH fr Us ae ae SIT GAA ASAT A ToT
frat saa

a, FT aqas TT Het H few Aes sears arar/aqdard earat/
featerrataetraraat # =H 15 act & fae aaaaaad

 afeentRat a fare Pear area
aarfte atefert et F aera
Gat Aart Gare Be Gael AM e aq:

gata area (fret) at freaferferr sare ar Gat ara Gare He Sate Far

arya erat are:

mR, HA A BA 3 GAT AAT Ga HEAT

a. 3 aaa are Ft Port (a-araerieraert Rare, eer whem, freaer
aerate arta),

T. (*) itz (@) ar Prarat Got AT

Rasen area & rte art (@aat aha):

Rare aaa (Gre ata) BT aeqatfed areat site ofearat & aqare Aart

aeart are art antreert Ft cart H cad eu aaa ana dare Het SNH ae aE

veda feu ae ster ft aétear & fore sacarht ait aaa Esitfrae Gat Sarat AT -
sari fasrrarsit aie ACTA FT cart H Tad eu seared ae ara Fara seeat ar

Te wert Haan art art aarse Gare Hed S ae SerhT waa AT Fert aed ZI

Rae Farah BT Gert ASAT aeterrait At areeht Serer ert arfew ate are

aed fate care ae aaelt feon-fréer, wavasten afafian, froat ate at are

fafrarat car sad eu aerreat & ft cha att arfer Saat Gert Ara atrerrsit AT
ere atte At orerart ert afer aed cer a eg aaert ara sa TTT BT TET

HAT aTfeul

aad aT sare HT FT TTT F Patera artrars afeaferst are z:

i. faega attifers feaft, ata afar, ater site oat afar, Geer ar sate,
aaah ate Tet TT ere AT EAT, SST AT TAT, HTS C/A ASAT
Wald, sah Aare ae, wefan, wares, ara sites, afer are, serera,
ais sears arf Tar sea

ii. aarfect trarftex, repens ware, West thaex, entree AETzI

iii. am fart, afer ft aft aa, afte ate cast var ar sam, wet
frrert

iv. wa-aaem, sa-fafaeat (arateraahaat), arg aac, eaft cay, vatacr
feafe, arariis-arhts, acta veq si aaa art ated aera are Ft afer
24

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

q2.0
q2.1

@2.2

Aaa Tart HOT few ant ast ae Haast HF Tae ae Tataey ae aT
BT SoS HOT Arey TAAL aT ATSTATI

v. apy ah Taare HT AT-aTe FEAT

vi. gat ae arg dated artery ae Het are fara vatacefte seat & fore
art Ft farcrett aca

vil, OTT TATU AIST Be Para Se TEA ASAT

viii, | aaa, Tae site set HT aTTasts Hea F Ages eA Ft TTA!

ix, ea ANAT site aeat azo date aha reaferat

aaa featé ate aera are wee fore Gara Faroe UH TET aT 21

GT AAT ae Soret H fore Tah ers Farstost

aartrhy a Fastest (étrS)

wat area sit ores ft oH ag-aqrraarcasy BHATT SF Hel We Her ah Gat
Faeroe (was) erat & rat aaa AT TATE He HT ATT aT SA TT aT
art arfenl sae ore Prafeed soar ert are:

*) aaa Ft eee, ST ATH, aferrat, erat site fafa Ft sears
TSAI
@) area, Sart At vate ora aie aT

Prafeted fags aat at ceara fear war 2 Brest araeaean sa aeraat & fer
erat &:

i. art Stat UAE

i, tT fara wastteait
ii, «90 Rate Af atk steer ACT

iv. fafa, Paes aie are

v. fears az fat Uy at 0H
vi. arash arf wae

vi, Tala, career aR AAT eUaaa
vii, Iteeitht (ar fers) sttet

ares & fore gras Aer aga

R. art iftrtieat ara aa at ue ateteay uate fet ar
feaftarara aqeart avant afafara, 1956 (1956 ar 3) #t aver 4 & afte
freaftearaa aqart arnt art Areva oe Peet ot dears alee wH Aker
afafiaa, wa wedi afatae at a use afafaa aro earite ar frie
at can ae a feaftarers art aqed anges feet ar area aeare art
 [art I—ave 3(i)]

FIST BT UST» AATAT OT

25

qT.

Wee A Aree ae ATTA oa Pet At fava aT EIT BT AST HTS
fh ages Mert aga |

Pah ore eet ae Ga AT A UH Tae aca &h aes HT HA HT ATA (3)
 atta give apa

atefta - 6 ATE aire sae arfeen Ft ara & aera wher asa

a23 &ugs fu aa aaa

co

um frost at Gat AAT dare HA FH fore aa fers ah acta sar F
apres 5 ae ar ar arate SAT ATT

aafea eat Fare aed oe Aas aaa Pati ATeatarqeaarst AeaTA/
Raearaatinatarcat F saan wa at & feo aahqaaar
afearRat ox fare Pear sat

yaar atefert cet H sera

@ 2.4 vern avg > fare faery stores sear ae aT
@ 2.4.1 aadtht as faaes - aaa shia (wag):

wR.

rater aa & fore faare tern agar

i. aaa sifirtivaga aan aa x ue dey eat oedt
ah jocmars/caen Raft a eaters aqert avant afafras,
1956 (1956 aT 3) At aver 4 & afta feeafteres aqardt aT art
arerat ore feet ft dears afea us Ade afafian, wae wedi
afafiaa a ue ose afatiae art eartta ar faire at eae aceite
wer feeafterera arr aged sages feat ar area ATH aT ATT

atex att rere wre Peat oft featteraa at dearest ST aeat FTS
fh ages Mert aga |

ii. atefta - 6 ATE aire saat atten Ft ara & eta Tierra
erates a ® fore fee aqua a Prafetad wave afte sat are
i. GAA FT Ta-Saae Ta aes Ta Fae TAT LAT

ii. aaah Hraravard/ate-ard ATA Pere Ses TTA CATS AAT
ii, aT Mo ate ae ae BV a art avert A STA

iv. 1 @aret rent eat ate araerrcorratt Bt SATA

v. ae, aT ae targ aftat few caHtht-aries raertan
vi. SAT STEHT BT ATA HT ATA

vi, ata fees & fae Ther H oraerite aera

vii, «= Teak aT STH ate Paferat ar Sores sara ae SaAT aT
aarat
26

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

ix. q-faam, sfaréua, a sit saree, aaa fata six veg aafet GT
aerarh Fast AT ATA

7. rar att sacar

i. ret Atay sare HAT se GT AtoraTat Ft STLET Tae HAT,
TAA STAT BT STANT HAT SAT ATT HT SPSS Hea HT STAT

ii. aaa & aftorat site ofa ar seca aed areft aaa ara/qa-
ATA AAS AAT GATT HAT!

 il. afte Grr AST, STs Area Peart A Tse STeT ATTA LAT

iv. Gat ASAT AAT AT STA -aaat area & fore atsrar, feoret
att aise fer aTFeaAT AT STAT ATI

v. afast oRetes, estas forest a aah Hy AI SAT ASAT AT
® fore ASAT SEAT

vi. ararfen, ara, Tas azar aris Scaraa ASAT GATT ATI
@ 2.4.2 cath aa faataa - art yaahts (Tassie)
a. raters aa & fare faery afore agar

i. ve oaittiearsdtéts arate AT TTT
fafrarraeart & faoa-qftara / aqya afer F aracaraz
fet / wae

ii. atefta - 6 ATE aire saat atten Ft ara & eta Tierra
@. waters aa & faru fase aqaa a Patafad wre aeasy sa areTw

i ATE, STeraved, foratatee, aresatee, acts, atetes anfe ser
VASRZ BT STAT He BU aes Frpra Ateet TAT FLAT!

 ii. 23st afer ster Ft arreat aie years Aq ate ater dare
aed Ft area STATI

iii. aad art, Starsua, fete, aaa aia & fw ada & aratfeaa
arent eat ar ara aire tps
7. afta aie sacar
mi, aa Hyder artrerrat ft carafe wear, Waeror ard Ft arta site

ase Fae HAT

a. arét carat oe fefetr aca, doen, qeates ate aftr agat a
Peart aecar Tar Ht AAT FATT TAT!

7. ade afar ararita aa, te frat, aeons site qari ater
ae LAT

a. afta atarkat ax feat aro froofea ast arat ar fratfera,
aaaters at va feta ATI
 [art I—ave 3(i)]

FIRT FT UST: TATATRT

27

3. ard Seas H AHAT GAA ste Gaerr ster at sofas site arqefert

aAT|

7. at saa arart fafrrat six faferat 4h caveat ear gar ear
ATTA PAT

B. wets ate sos ysert A wa vearat F aaariss site alae
SATA HT Hea PLAT

a. wart ate carat ara & feo ster ® fagon, after ak
qarart art et afar yaernt ar fratia wert Ft oraertar a
AAT BAT BT AaTSTS Hema Rare Fae HAT!

 a. afr yaar ft aaraat ar areca wer H fore sore siteaers,
VAST He AT Tare PLIST HT ATTA BAT

G2.4.3 cadtht aa fastest — Rate Aft atx siaréva (area):

wR.

rater aa & fore faare tern agar

frat srerhrét # fet aaat ercara ities area oa
Pratrarcaaeart ara sarh aaes y-Para/aagrae y-fasrrasret Fee
ares fare

aaa,

atefta - 6 ATE aire saat atten Ft ara & eta Tierra

a. raters Se Ferg Fete ages 8 Paterg ent eta sft

arésftarsca, vapfteréva, exert anfe aa sfteréva ak fate aftr
arreqat sar safa-aTeT

cardia fag, Stet weet ea, aracet fagquao se arheftersue fae a
ATTA

Haws Serares THT F ATA!

 7. afta aie sacar

Rate afm, sttereua, sfrttva,
ferent Freres,
cared feacar & fare qare wT ATTA

G 2.4.4 aaHtht ar fasta - Tae (TaN)
 %. rater Sr fa Fate As eae

UR aearet Araa-asT seat F ater A yates fevvfeciar sie
Ssitcava a fafearesa art AFA TAT TT TTT LAT Ae aT AT
aay Te ASAT ATT STATI

6 Are ate cae afer Ft rahe atedta-qera wfserer/arerra

@ —- erates a > far fate aq a Pafafad aaa afte star afer
28

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

7. afrat

vi.

vii.

viii.

 caraphas TaN, Asst Tae H ye asa STAs she TATA AT AT STATI
yaar yaaa eeereoreit ate aero hare & ofr stam

aaa erat FT feo ae ares aie maT aed aaa eter FY acta AT
Wea BAT

sare AY ae, Tees, aafera ferteat Ft wor Hear site sez Fargas SAT
BA AI GAT F AT AT

at saarest

aaa feo ort are eat & date Strat Fe are F Para ora HA few
fafern fReatet, aero Pepret atx aft oftat ft ator aca

froarea art ® feu sara & Rater, qa aie areera ®& fore aaertt Ft
waar, Au, ford ax fafa orrear dare HT TAT Sa eee HAT
aaa Ft data aft ace F ster, are, wale, Au, Rare aie wea AT
HOT At Ses WHAT ATI

faarrart, uftaeadt, ert atx aceree orate witaa oifterh faeer
(sitive) ar soar ect eu ade aat F qecagt fasrrarat site Para aT
Rarrax Tay aatter rather HAT

Sohtaae az areqerert arf, arent & art site oRatsrar a aaa ares rat
ropa & areat Tarasy ATI

aaared, Ueltsert site seq ant fers are cari wer few dare yeast
At AST SAAT At =A AAT Ret ATI

craps aaa, TATA ahs BAT

wate err artearat % fre aatta each ar Tar TAT aie Sees Pfs
oT aa Teaterars azar aver aft Searat ar ar aT Wars HAT

 © 2.4.5 cadtat aa faatoa - afar, frage site ata (ATTA):

wR.

aratara aa & fora fafatttce stern aang

 araat owe fattest azat verdes art aqaiea derma &

Tha fea aiheot + fered. Sifety wemersier
ml

ated - 6 Are ate are afer At rarer ena wher/aTSa

@ = - erates a > fare fate aq a Pafafad aaa ofa star afer

arra-fie site apfare drat erat & fru fara aosaret ar area
Wert att area eresters faces cat oRaga aca ate fee

BrP, WaT AX Ta-TATS FT Tae
 [art I—ave 3(i)]

FIST BT UST» AATAT OT

29

iv.

 vii.

ararefiran ate aoa Frat & fee aragae ater ar Tat ars fore A
at area fae arash ar eter BAT

afea fea worferat ar feast ae ara Tare HA F STITT HAT
afhet ate areraract se fagqa soem area aS TATA We ATA HAT
art arora Fh fers as are Hatt AT ATT Be THETA F TAT

7. Wher ae Seats

xi.

fafaa aadeaar forest (Ta, Serer faa, ae wave aaa) ar ores
AT TAS

BATA GATE HA GAT HAT Seteit Alte (Ata) area

ofa af afar vei eft (was caun) arterar area

are aree afte, qn atefert art art ay AAT

gare ar ares siz aris gers Ft fafeat ar arateara

zafte afer ate aah freer (asthe) ate aera
wreanhrst eqraTT|

fag ate qftere dat arat F are wit ace era face

erat aT Sort ara serra (rege site Short TeHN) sie Ga BHT Ft
aac a arti

“Seat Saale HSA ACTA” TL TATA

ast ara fase aigeaar fare ate arect aa Fare

sites ark Fart fa

G 2.4.6 Teeth ar Paar — favors site faa (wa site WH):

wR.
i.

ararers aa & fara fafafes ters agar
tvarteequ azar wate aes Hea
atefta - 6 are aire saat afer Ft arafer & etre wikerer/aTerHa

a. rater Se Fee Fare re 8 Pret seme nf eter Te

ofa, aste site fart Ft arftrisaen reertar carte er F reyes;

aret  aftrer At veara serrat % feo aht-ariers, afrarat att erat FT
fafa feu art aaeft Foi

fassed anid set faves sara & scared, Tora & fer atfere sara ar
ape Pear STAT SI

afte wart FY aearearcoT ATI

7. after ate sacarhitct
30

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

Frege oats anre at Fert aoa
afer Fagor aera

oRasat araertanr ar Hat site aremt fag
TTR BT TTS Se HATH ATTA

aaa TAHT FEAT

@ 2.4.7 wade a fastest — aarisrs-arfeta (wag):

*,

Vv.

aratere aa & fore aera afere erat

amr aeariaart faraortte fara wafers ATra-2rral/

atorararactia sigma oredtt arava aprr/vatacfts ara,
faararcrs faara F arearax aft

aay
arty fara att veteran seiorearhtes aarsterreal/ Tater tet
waste (oT Tater)

aay
area are avarisrn fara aateft for

aay
aret eedteye ath ateret area, sferae sefteqe ath Ateret arse, cys
eefteqe ate faerie, qaray wrens, WAay FA ATeTaT WTA
 Heart Ae eq reara Hera F AAT H 2 aia araarac fee

ated - 6 Are ate sare afer At rarer eT Whe/aTSTaT

a. raters Se Ferg Fete age 8 Petre ser ent ear fee

vi.

 vii.

marcia aed ATE Tal) west are qearest (ferent
Trt year (AAT) ATE A SaaS aTATisry-aT ls AAT BAT

aera feafe veda Het & fee SeeoraT artnet & afesert ox fate rer sare
sata sft aeftacor oie SI

AAT ATALAHAT ACHAT ALTAT PLAT

wre att testa sat eat Ft ararrr-are feat ar yeaa
aAT|

UTAH TAT IT Tae HEA sire ata Pent Hes at era wats BeAr
ft up afette farce arf

fara ofaisrarat atc fara At avet & fearita anit & fare th oe ae
ferme arate ae Ga eaT TT (AIK US A) ATT PATI

fara ohare & sere arate oat ar areectt
 [art I—ave 3(i)]

FIST BT UST» AATAT OT

31

fasrost & Praferte afatin ated &
© ats are get a aaa Aiea, feo Preett ete args At aT
eo afore aot & feare Rasa ar averse wares are
@ 2.4.8 cert a faster — Taare, TaTeey aT AAMT (STATA):
a, fats wa & raters ae & fore sero agar

i. water esters, fafea, serait eshte ar estat afar at
ares F tte ahs oH

 i, ater — vee deat (ra Horas, areuetare, wraredtares, wrared,
aaedtrht frat use are & aTerar wre sh. fecetraja cata (strearthrs
TM)

a. TSR a Sera oe Ferg egg 8 Pre anf err Te

vi.

 guava yaa faeent sic sata atredae At sepe aay

aaa arrat atc faa AT sear

arariers fears veat Ft aera sara (Wace flea, TAA HAE)

fade wo a ge Jeni, Ta BT, Sal BIG, Sra safe H saat site His are
fara & faforear

wate gare sae fafa Rare frarfeaa aca eu softest ate waist
feat Ft AerzaT BAT

fata we a aaa Sart Fazer aferars we FH arqere srt afew

7. par ate sacar heer

TATE, Aa Ae Talay vaerst H Terra AA FH few aeqareray, aaa Ta
MPA AT AT ALA AHA CATT HAT SAT ASTATT BAT

arene caeaar, saa caress, araftre vader site oraara ofhar # ate
aaeft freee

Terral we carat  ara-ara Ewa sree ate uaa viareit eT sare
Taal

Taree arian, Aeat atx viarat ar erat, fareara wear atx wafer AAT

aeferd ofareat sia (waairiea) site are F ara areft atarat ar fazer Fare
al

G2.4.9 cath ae faetrr — y-cHtsh (sith):
@. fafare wa & aratare a ® fore serftrs agar

i, fafae, ce Aafere ate yoo reht Sait ar soit afar ar araet FH

athe AS oH

ii, atfeeat — 6 are ate sae afer arate ar Gera wert aS
32

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

a. fate wa a arate aa & fore aq F Prafetad afte srt ae

i. Prareftr cham, atten of otter, gate ates orf arfe ae fora
oe reer

ii, chr-prferdt Siorrtert (arch) ret 10 at. ar sae aterm care F feet
ae Tae a ST A ATT STAT ZI

ii, Lote Fat Ft srs, fagqoor site ateferm
iv. atceter re site StH Atfeett ar yaar fear
v. ware Ta, art Aare are

vi. acted, araTqEe agra aoa at ape aaa fee fast
fasrrt & are FretaHt BT ATATI

7. ofan ate sacar heer

i. gat wat & fro carat aret

ii. afrra afareat & fer afer, ase six fovea

ii, = art ait citrate feral

iv. - efert Sa fase

v. Faere fare

vi. ofeeat ATT ite TAT ST HOTT HT STAT HH Bla ALTA

@3.0 at acey (fica)

@ 4.0

Praferfad ar aaax vara aed & fre ea aia F eet sae’ ar Soret mrt Pea
Tae
art aa arqadt aire Peg sa afe F ara & fers aqara Ft ath
waters ata ar reat Her *& fer adara Faeraat

7 ta aT Toe agar aaa aed ae 5 a Oe a
Eres ar St AY eqsres arargeenacat HT TT TET HT SI

a. at o-area faaroat & fra we Sarasa ZI
ae aaer & refers art

 za aaeq (fin) & atfera & fe ae aa art aa HE aie Ateiva & Se at aay
frarc-faast stat & ae ae sre ater ard & fH oes art ara F fasrosrat ore ent
sare yee aera sare Hae Tegal a see oR a Hart ate sta F fu ae aay
wear At fare dare weet oe Se feat Sa aT AeT

faroat A araeanattvarasae faereat ft dear:

1. afar wae S-erea Err afew (er ar fers BAA A) |
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

33

2. am apr faté dare eet A ofa fase ea-ersa at afer (et aries
arart)|
3. Pret ft aoa, fra arerar at ort 2, ore we aqaifed sera char
TaraTs (GAA), UH Fa-srea Fis (GAA) SAT ATT!
4. aq dud sana a tacitee erat anew aa At aragarea aT HST
are ore fore at aft orfier Hear ATT
1.3 aya ar fea
at aétea, arpert ofeat, aera arade Set ata aragaearat afea sa apra At aeT
AALAHATA BT ATT HLAT SI
1.4 ete ar aerdtacr
ATTA Arora Ther THAT Ht Si AaTesT A Terae Ae AAT FH ST AAA-AAT WT TATA
A Tares Pau ST Tera SA ate THTaeteray F TAT aT Her H fer Tar ar ATT
patarsrawdt sat & ore arr oRrarait ate cite arte F, sit oft Ste aati, soir Hr Fe alt
aferre a artaat & rape & PH a aot aera Perey ge:-aresaraersarsr aT faeae at
sata fer aS HLA A Teer Fare TAs Sat Ft Aaaree (http://nabet.qci.org.in/)T~
watt TTT Ta
2.0 aera > fru aaa

woreft-ararite shearer ara 2 fer areca sae araeanare feefta Ft rs S1 hts A aera
fou frafafed ae arasers aracaercrat ay fares rar wat 2:

 i. As Fae
ii. ara Feder site varrerren Ft erareat
iii. sre afar eta, fiteway atpeday, arate ate STH
iv. TOIT Ta TTT (FLAT)
V. Peatet Fr Worrat
vi. WTSATAH TetaaeaT
vii. ATTA ATT FATT SST MAT HT ALA AT
2.1 ATs aT

yaar fear site aaa ata Tar ara aren dare Hear areca H ag-faoeht afaatea z, frat qatar,
aad ae Sanaa Tat F Sree safer Sra z, ras fre Peaté Gare At ore

2.1.1 Tats wares (et)

qa wae ar aaa are Fore oaeret art arfer Het At aia F ofa Z,
Rater a aera aie ana, ett aera, Ett Hh ATT Ase TET, HTS ATT Tae HT aT AS
34 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

 afafere azar fe fea care wer, aah SareaT Her se atast he ae-aetea Ta aragay Rats  ca-
cara & feo atest ar at vat Fear ST
ote & fore sragasy start Prarqare & —
© oRaseT araeerrarelt, wheat ate afore ar pares eT
© oRatser ar faa at art ates afer, Pert ate faterat Ft aera
eo wre Ft aT
© get Ft ator, wae atte fearr-frear Ft tgea aT TI
aa vars, ohare aaa 2 fore arqera ate oR apa ae TT FRAT STAT ZI
fafira eftat & fore oR aaa (fre) at series ergar, pares rears ate aa
rat & fare raferfaa safer afhfaret ar dat a
1. aaa Gara TFeTT
2.0 ART aaa Ga ASAT
2.1.2 aarttht a faster (etre)

fing & fare sarge & fer vata sage & fore fasrosrar } araet Safer Sat F Teas A aT
aa tite ar array faereer serge Sar arafera | Asa are fre ist art aie -

e Faerrsrat are aro aa fre eat F eet ETT

e aatrht erat ater F fearat six frat fafa Ft aaer

e afar Ft aragaerat BT Tears FY err,

fatter iti > fee oReatrar waren (fret) Ft erhtrs agar, ars aera siz

aarfeaa rat & fee Fraferfera aatert oe feret ar sash a
1. ae a faster eter
2. aah ae fastest art aSTAT

2.1.3 wa aaeq (Ata)
‘aa aay aah STAT AAT TWAT z:
 © | Wa au afeat at oreest Sat reg rod Aare Tah at H aaqeres aT Weq Vas TT
SAH Ble TAT ALAA TET SI

othe aed fafa cadtht eat at carers & foro aft agar fener aa & fer sa at
 afeat Bl Aaae SAT! As SATIS Hat SA-STSA HHA & fers ST Sl

aa aay wT FH afer at rite wea are F OSA at Ghat Pear sera aria site War SS
aredias wr & Page Hea a geet Pear ora aTeTl

2.1.4 faareat > fer ararent org

a. Peavé dare wea Foret atat fasta arate siz Avs sraeaearqa4ne =a-
area (Got aries Hear) aT atieg St aad ZI
 [art I—ave 3(i)]

FIST BT UST» AATAT OT

35

q.

aera fates (asa) - cH Diaries aad stat 2 A arden tor
(TA)/ATTAT TTT TATA ATS (Tete) rer Te HTT HAT J Me TT aT
wea ae apa FH aqae AAA ATA TTT FLAT Sl Sa-VIea Faeroe FT
aft aprara ap fee Paw are Sf ST ay et are ES twa Fh area St ZI
aed H prereset a ariet ate feet aaa aod FH fet ft oe a
aererferr ar yotariers ST A ara aT Her  ara fase (Sat sara F
ATA) TOAST TATA HY BT HAT Sl HATTA Hears F ert TaTStSst
 ST Aaa IT aH Tala US orf HY ‘Ea-erea Paras’ AAT BT AAT
Fal

qiiee fates - vst/oeter 4 aftaa’ eros ft at aehT at aad 21 aa
Fastest ar at sitet’ (a fe feet ares ar green aetarA) et aerat z aT
Tasha aT apatart ASA saeHrahH TEI H HTT HOT ATAT ST THAT Sl ATS
are F, feaftraraa ® fru gaara 4, werfterera & fore vararart & six
waste at aqdart aot & few aed wa a, Faria, aaraha vast
(waar) ore BAT SETI Wan/wetat are WS Paso & arr waarg/ferfat
mere erat area frac waar ate Was ere FH orrPer er se

Taster deat a aaa feet aot AH aria ae
vaodtat % fro ates Perot ar fracr qa ana 21 wreae/afeers fares
aot F wae qotarfers freee ar arte oot A anftare at areased aT
rarer Sat AAT ora = att ae ca thle % ata ates fast &
fanned at aad ar ast ae Star V1 aah ale sre aie Hot F cada Peers Ss
a ag afeaan ore vavodiat t ates Peres saa ar ort eh Ta ATAaTt
H poet F cada Peern St aa SA TET wT A aaa Tera Veda HoT
Fan

Taste aT aera seat aearat H ares BTS Fastest afeenay 3 water
H astra St aa 21 (fre at weft ord 5.1.6 xi ater)

 att ofiieg ae! eros & ates 2 fH a aeefifasrost arr eearathea
att varcdtat a wera seat wea are oft eerahta ara Ft aT
wet Fl atta serfifados & are at veert arr war eeaaha
TAS aT He Sra afew eras Ta ar Heart se HAT HT ATT ST

aa att ft atte fastest at ara ator rar @ at & fearé F aoa atrara F
aad 1 cart sah cara Het sat & ST arses Fao F ZI

Wrtiva, ftvivae ate Auave Ft art ert at Ft fies att rat cat anew
oT fe sete wieefet & fee arate six feu ae arat scare & fara fa
ae Zl

saeren Pref oft eo Fare ot Rear ar ars oat sega Hea F Ue Paereat
HATA Ae / AT aaa / ATS FT ATA TE MT STAT

2.2 Fa Hea she VARTA STAT TIT
36 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

Waa, Gard AAT sie Ys-saeriaaraertan Rare dare wet fore aT wae ates wat
HoT BAT Hea 21 aera Aa afta wet sit areas UHa Her hh fers aqarfed Het ax Avs
are afar ere & ae oe araret ohare Ft eat arate aft Hecayeh ZI

Tae ATT ATT AT aaa F Paferaa veqat er efter Pear sear

i art fred

i, areuerft arardet & aeqare ae Set TAT

ii, | prPaT ate ate - arf fe fet ster

iv. op atfecht attr

v.  areraet siz Parat-afreret where

vi. Tae AST

vi, aegitBrtratirrat ares
2.2.1 arnt & Pagar atx gRorrat F fears & ere varare Sas EIT
ane wast Hea A aafere art & fer wayathe as SARIS VATA AT WH aT are ares
warrerrerat 2 aTeT HU) WHA BT areet St aT Ale we Fer aert-steT Feat F dare Ft ST
wat Germ Pearé At aot aragaeparat ar orrfrer aa a fre wee SF Saar aera sal FH HAT z

ay eae ore Faforce warren aT HS ATTA ate SeaT sao Rares cast H aaa Here arate fear-
fra arr area

art are Fay HT WaT Terai BT ATTA ATT TT TATA A TAT STAT ATAeTI
aft aon faite feor-Raat = wo F feo ort aren wears Aer Tara *& rae FT
ards ota aa afew

face araet F ctr ded fare & fers sagen are at are Peeafrerraverqserest dears Ft St
SISA VARTA at IT aera are Fae at aeons At ear ST AAT ZI

Set wet At Ua ates Gerd F vstedie gre caer Te TT WHT HAT Be ae AH VATA A OST HT
fagoor fear strat & aT Ua saat BT WHT HAT, ALT TAT Ses WaT TH Tea A aafae
armored aa eqrave # varotte a ore faeqa ferfea shear ert arfec wha F fates wo Ft
Safer carat & aaa A fee onfer Pear sar @, TT BY Weer ea, Aaa area ale * fers
faa Par aes aret ATS & are F Shore wa a era feat ra aTfeT

2.3 sage Sereeray, ot ts un, areata, sates ate soae: apelens-waredtedd At Agarge We
art

2.4 TTA WaT Tet (TATA)

za chia & oetarfere seeat Fa we Roe dare aes & Fre yore arate sfearr et ergata & fore
 Teast aoa BY Meat wear 21 avast feafe ae arf Ft at gern sit aaa aha Aare ae
areht aftraco/ aroat & ore featé dare ees et aro wag At Rae at rast are ae ae aT
aqaat & gare Pau oT aT SI

SEE BT aet Tas FH few adat AOA TS TAT vara Toferar att arfew sr Asa & ferw
a ach 31 FTA, arsvast 9001 Ayer Heer ae avarita err areul Fat ze aftart wet z
fe aed areuerat 9001 warfire at, eITawa F arsvaat 9001 Ft araeaHarat atx eft FT afore
araeanarat ot cara Fear sat afew
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA 37

yaar werastararat HT Aare at art @ Pe ae aa ATS fore Pra vast Toreft aria HY sic
aa aaa ve fore Prerferfera rad Z;

© Tectt are at er 8 art aes Ht Hep Far art

© ae met Ht aepht a1 aera Fra S “EA set HCA g ae HT TE ST GH FEM el”

© worreft at site aaa FT Sear site aries Fasre ox Prstcar HH art &

© BATT Tae ATT He HT Aarar Pera sire Hreret TH Hae Ferehat STAT

eo ae ara faa wet Fae Pred SI

 © HTT HT ea HH SIT | Se THAT BHAT act SI

© art Ft aac aie as At aS H Gare Sa BI

waTdtsht cis ft faire aracrparat eT carat F cad eu FquAE asus 9001 ae aranfta sar
arfem rar cart we fH afe are ATot Test A averse 9001 warfira & at a1 a a4 six FH10
feor-freart oz arareaa: fears fear war & (Brecht ata At or aad Bi ca ae aa fera = PH Taos
fafors at aata fi4 a ato & fro aertoorett garft aria ate ees wore & ST Sa arfew raat
at ae @ fh ae oft ar weer, sears Peer, veers after arfe & ara F art TAT

ane Pret cot Ft qearet art eet Ft coreft ararta shearer A set Ft we 2, aT wefea, oar
weifera atx after grat & at sa aréuaet 9001 Ft aragaearait A eae ar aR Ra wera are
arest FOS aot Terastarar Ft aersa A aed Sf Pq wacs Sst arora Ft aragarHarsil BT TT BLA
a fer Se ee eae ee aT aT ase SS et HT afew tear fern wig Serr athe
fener Fh we wah worrett at art set are ea HT HET AT HA HATA S A Ae MSA TATA VW
 STAT Tera eara HT Aaa ta A SS Te Wet cartes Hea eT TT TS eet AT HI

aqua eater vere wore aren aa Sta F

© aa seer Tore Perr

© erecta

 © aretroreftat aratiead aeat & fere art Reevsaiaara/ oreq/ ota aPrat
wae frat ae daeft fear freq

Tora ate wa a a Pafefad a fears wer & fore Pathe eh:

Tot Tae ae sat & fre Sa St aa Serht Tort ieen Freer F aera Fer
frafta qare ate aaa watset araeraarat fore vitae areata at
aeq Pattta aed atx ater aah fer era Toes BATT

ated & Atae ware Pear ST ah se AAT ST TI

So Oren Ft date ae east

age ate Part aera gat earerst - a shhh vars Ft yar aie soearter afed frathta
equaa & fare rater, Sarees ake Terazar & fore wha Pettt

e  FITAUa ar ware feared ate fareaara h few Saearhica Pathe grat z
a. afar efearr six sitfen arena ara ar Seqaret ere ze

To yard meq hnert & foro sorreft Prather ate frarfeaa art &

a A a4
38 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

a

sifen seers ofa cari At art f St aroat & et art =

red UAT H fee St Tas are Gert AT Teas Slat S ale IOV F AME HEA
fora Saree Sage oe ew are eI

waa aaa aaelt wort Pattie atx fares Ft ort &

aoe dares at airtel re arrears Soreerax attra, sree ett ware err

 Prather aqrave  aqare arasaaarat ar ger aed & fee ofearat st aratiead six
Fria eer Ft atarar aeatt

wefan Gat % Pear & Prarie & fare artradt fev:
aearasit az Pears Ft afore wa a Tear

ST Het A Test THAT ASH HT AGATE

aaarat We feretaor

MALTA ATLAS TATA HY THTAT A Ses ATTA HAT

a

Al

sl

4

a

A

ofrecer site yatert
sears aera Garter Ft ta Saeteera ahferet HAT
wet fert aaa ar wpe, Arar ate Titre TAT TATA TTS seas ar eT
ar Roe eater at ee se Phar ett Re
a. orfret fasrostt ar, St conti feed (tered) site sara anita Yeates Ts AAT
aq dae Ft re yeti Ratet ar yearns sire yore afafera AT

7.  oaraite ate aredt aat afta arate axe fone ger wher aa aeaaqena
(weet) /sreretatt FY are a fore steer Breas

a. aferar at Sad eu vader ater ate gare At 7S rary Reatet Ft yoraar ae Raa
weara & Gtsah ated Het Bl Sora STAT TAT Aaa ATA HATS,

TAATSETAT Te caret BA fre Ht TE arkars - fra & fore aria fret:

wm. BOTT ae Ft aA are areas At Gears ee & fers wate aaa arate rar water
aa aredt char wetert a wettest ar Fereporot

tat artareat & fee eters sare gar sea sarqe At Tea
arate & far aaa ste aa sararacea athe acar

at ort areft Hreares Hr TT Stat ast TAT

At 1S Garey Beare At arasfterar Ft aatear

afe sagan at a shea, saat car aa equa Ft aeitert

FATE & ard-aa @ Safer cers, fastest gar seq oafeat At aera weet - ar fers erat
fren:

 4ag4 a a

4 4 4 A @
[art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

39

POAT a vars fara * fore aragaen orp ar Pater sie ses SIT FATT
@ Wreath UAVS al Vala Hea aret ters, Fagot Tat ea oafepal, ae F Sa SIS ST
aT Sh Ue St, H fore ara Area (fore aes BAe stort) Frater

7. aarfaa faeroatt & oftarcor & cee Sas are Peo ae rat ar Aa

a. force at cred & fer "tear AT ord" Gare wear, rad sas are art foro feat
dare Hert aT Z,

Swed ® few fastest arc Pau ae art ferret BT ART BAT,

a. war ft anal, ara aa ater eer fare Set artare ae aire few au erat Ft
waractterat a Yeates BAT

BAA TAT wT A Sage aa Tea

wafer Ser HT ATS BT ATT

UR rT at aT arent HT Bh ere orate’ Stet afar are aera A was Pee ae aah ware

STEN HT HAT HOTTITT AH Stay WHA Hea AT fara H afehea one sat arfee:

a. feorereft cera aft sear site carat a Ser aT HA Fh fer ATA aaa & ere eet Ft
feafe & are F oreraret ort wer fer yaar sa are eae TORT WaT THAT ate
aradat rene FT Fart ATI

aq. arte arraret oe rea & fore aiferste fazer feet ster At Saream

7. aT At Ty are Gaerr ator artes BT TTT HF wT a fafAfee wear sik
Seat SATSAT FLAT

fete ster ar fea, aes sit STAT -

fects ster ft srarftrnar, faerafterar, sage ate oreifitera ws steht spaarfae fare ar arene
Ql fecteen ster ar soart srearfe ster & ee & foro feat sro ite Peet oft of feats F sear
saan wearer ster vftearca eo Ft aed Pear sea gat oie A Pe oars oer Set
afer:

a

feces ster ar were aa feat TT
aera fade ster ar TST Yaa eras araeaHaet  apeT PAT STAT FI
fader ster atat ate srt faearertirar ait ary aftfert ATI
ETT TL AT aT ara ST HLT AAT aTeT HTT facta ster Ft farfeateT AAT
ZS. ster ft aferaar afafera Hear (stare tee rear BT STS HA)
feds Stet ar Saat aed F ate ar aed Sar UH Tea HTT ZI
Aree S ore TAT, Terral site Aaratt ar aay
Wor aret F Wa At Te ohare, searat six Fara & few aragars Pear ary Hea & few gore
cat FATT
 Aqae Ft Prafetea worst & fora seer erat arfeu:

a A 44
40 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

a. Sa oat ar afarite sor we area ar wert frat sam
b. HPT Bl areca wea & fore after Ft array HT AT TAT
c.  -arseardt are ® fare Prater ate ort Gare HAT
dd. argeaté Pau ae erat At era aft fara Her fer sore STA aret Hat Ft SEAT AAT
e. uaftarfta eqrava & aqare arsed Ft we Sarat At waar oe after, Foret six
Fern
yaar ster fore sateen art — Praferfaa & fare ofearatt ar sete star arfeu:

 w. Aas HC ST Aas THAT Seer H ATEN > fore ara HTT ar AAT Ae ae HLA
fore Peeth wearerorrer er SerhT erra & fore aera ATI

GT. Waar aT a Sey are SAT SH Terr Teraearar ASA areT Few oy art HAT Ft
Tea FCAT

TCA A TANT TH AT HT ATS, ALAM sre TLS
a. wreaften ster tare pret Ft Ch are eat Te TAT AST YOTAT APTA
E. FAAS STeT AVS HUT VT VST aA ST TT TAT STA et Pants FI Pre
Tres Tavares siz ferearad- Praferfaa % fore wfeareit ar sert|@ Brat areT
arent At aaa Ft sa ea oe Pret eat Brera Sart ect sit ater TF Si
foreerarat Saar Te areeat BT PTT ATI
forarrat at fiat BEAT
Pra aaa afta ser Sarva ate Frere (orferare ate Brewers afea)i
forarrat ar ahrere Taal
ae Ae AAT HTT FH HTAteaAT BT SATA PATI
25 yen (foro, eat Storr she oF aHreraTarera Rave Ft Yaa

Se CHT BT Uh ASAT Seat, TAs SSA are Tare At we Rare Ft yoreray ar ae HAT,
qare eat Aaa H Sera wafer sar Se ah Pearé Ft yore at Sl Heats Ass F caret
Feacor Ft oar, Stet Ft ora, Stet ar faaqaer sitz area arf ZI

2.6 AISA WitasaT

aa chin ar seem eaetita yaar att wart Ara Gare He Tet aencort Aro AY Tea BAT
@, fared Sar F arrest Geter (sftenz), yt Aarerav/aarerar Peat dare Het arTeT ae ast sre SAT
 wa aera oa afteneort & earren Rare & fore ofan Mt Site Ht Sear Sars TET WaT S Se ATTA
WTA APARATO ST ATTA Mt ATA eared Hh ATTA HF ATS ST ATTA ATT HT HT
ff cara F Tar oat & (APS ATT 6 FA)I

4 a a Ad 3S

3.0 ATTA AH
a ara F arena att aren fore years ofa site ta ohare oer z:
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

41

wee ATA (ASU): asa, aaa AST FY  etaaT ar areerd Pea ara & ae SAH Tae
ATeqaT Tarrfear Sat St Te Bea AT AAT I, WH aaah ATom BT 18 AT ae
Fare geared i ord aemefte 3 at fer arerat at ort SI

frorertt Gear (WaU):7e ATH ae Vasls BT aH Her Fh fers V1 soar Yar Sees we Prather
apear & fe arerar AT orat & arqarerst are Hrl-Poaras eet Se TH TT SM Zl ASU H 18 ASIA ATT
wa eat STAT STAT SI
WA: ATTA (BRU): ae A Racay’ ata Hr areas Hed eT welts are arewar Ft srafear ahs
ore fatac Wore ae ae fear svat 21 SPs, Ste ar sifaa seem sare ear F Gare Ft oo St Gat
aermvsearite Pear|et At ora F Aare HAT B, ae: See fore A ws Ato a-e aeT F WaT aar
Tau y ava ag TT SI
oise wear a te at ger ata oe oa feu ae qaret ae at Ba eu oe aoa & few
ararert At ot cet afeaT   aATe Ae TAT Iz ATS HT Yeates Pa Sa ZI
4.0 serra shar
aTeu, WaT ait aren *& fere gearaa oie F dias ware otra z:

e Aetet Heated whraT

aq. Bratera Heat Thar

a. fora wirat
4.1 arated Baie via

aeu, Tau, au sa aqaifed fasroat Rreett area ats fear @, at aera & foro aries & faeax
a ost oqeatet Oo Ofer
aaaTsewww.http://nabet.qci.org.in/ 4 steaats Fear ST AAT Zl

amercat Bl AeareS TA S Pee ATA AST GATS HASTA HEAT ST Teel ATA HA aT aaah
Het Fl SS TE TTA & fer ea-Peathor yar wea SET Pe AT aaa TAT Her fora dare S aie
war waodtdhearest & fore dare 21 east Wee aay A aga sat ent Rrra araeH AST
(THN/ATIAT WA AATSHI ATS (Teta) ste WastSsh VAT al ATA SAT Alaaa Hat Age wiA|S H
sar few ort Sivas gre ceca At are att AY aragamar ert At feafa F seeht ora
vara ar ot art SI

vaw > fu arated WaT ay at oa & fa Ae Geet arate are fee erates Weare At ae
are 16 Fala Oe Sra Te TAT Par aT area set vere, are aaa BT ATT safe Ft sara FT
dra wala Feet sate areu ® feo arate years Ft adhe & are 34 we Oe ett ae veqa Prat
wat are

waved} arated vieat ata-areat @ at ata-areat aaa HT few aaaré oA are aft
apftars / wart Saerse Te Tee H ahh

araaat aT yates 3 aot H Pear sar z -

wor |- waa ara gre araaa At Goer At att

vaca srt veda aaet ast ware & Et sa arfeu sie sa Shite H aaaa Va (AT, TAT,
an) Ft ata at & sfeafea ast aerrh cea arr aT STA TART

42 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

waudtedt arava ats ta & Pe ahs

(%) aaat aT THT F TTS,

(@) Tega Sree Baa WHAT FS site

(71) areteet arafera thre & are ear wat

afe are artes avafiayasrest, rarer araeat anfe ater FEA ae A ae &, TH Tavs
ahaa sratearat & are F ravoetat at Pre HAT Sl ATATAAT HT PATA ST ATA WE Basa TT
 Wa: areas FT ort 21 ter arate & fore weedeat arava cath ara & fore erat feca first a
aa WS qeateanal (APT Fa) FH fore aaa FT aT Tray Sl Vata ar aar|S St art fH
MAST AA A Tet aaa at wT aaa TET TT HE

aT I - Temas At Tah aetAT

aafaea aati F forest aaa Tat art Gear eal waesdisst at vega feu ae arated  aearaait At
corde after eet 21 cee arsat yeahs ar al a yeatHarHatat ar ata sat Zl WaT
yearerHat (fz) wrest sh cere arr wats sor I Peas eT HT HAT Sl Hata Feats (ATT
ea) & foro fu usp ae-qeateanal (atv) ea A orf sta V1 ale saa ofa fasta Ar seat
Saran %, at wach SA oie at Sor wa fore ate afeee Aor Taree He aH 21 Edis aa
Weared & are Hie aesrqera (Uae) ate/ar aaereet (Aaa.) Tat Sat HT Sita He THAT F Tet
aaa aera Ft araeanarat BT Yet wet Hay Sl Vanesa are wast aie aactreth are
THAI TSH Fa HT Sth aaa Ft at Ft rears arate waters yeaa Par Sa SI

OT IN - Brats Hea

sad wa arden & Prafertad we tect ar years oer 2:

phat a ora ale ars-Prerre

aq. aadcaan, fhe un, wate atredar (Waserg) Ae SSAA (WASEPA)I

Stet At srarftreran afr fert wert 2 fare fies ars ate Ta Tera TorTefh

a. Waray veer Toe

S. Yaerr ares, Ga ATT ste WF Saaertav/eraertar Rearé ster Ft Tora

a. rears yeatea/aitaraar

B Arevar At at ae aq Pew Te Aare (WaT aie are & fer)

 yeatet wha Ter ST a set aranhta ate Sevarory AT ph Sl TIAA WTA HLA FH Ae, UH

wate & aera At orat er et & area Hea AT Salts At ort Sl aaa Frater Ft fee F ware az
Tra art ofa wits HT AIT Hees Fa STAT eI

art ae oz, arateaa qeatees & fore veioetet ar 10 fea ye aaa St ore Bi aah, wauteat
arataaeret Fe at HY TTT at eet aT feat Ta @, ale sa aaa Stew AAA
4.2 frota att Ft whrar

arate Feared what ae sta ae tie ate ate (ar ate) are we aa Rare Aare Ft ore F az
amt i artaré *& foro waudtiéat afaraa ar ast ort 31 afar fare & feo fiw Ree 21
wauatedt arava fare At gota ft ara Hea FH are, Vato eater Hate A aragaeHay ST IT

A
[art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

43

erstecm/afar arrears wa HAT Sl Tera waestest ahearaa are Aaa aera aaa
aaet aera oe aatter atx fete & feo veqa Pear wren 21 sae are afar aoe vans /
 uauatétaaaree http://nabet.qci.org.in/ Te areas Frat Sar Sl ATT HIATT ears At tT
ordre & vars at St SI

4.3 aded at Arta wiharat & fore are Sta

aaa, Tears ste aera Thararet BT get Hea Patera az Pe Hea z:

m. wage seas ATT ACT | ST I eat He fre wad et F GA oars we HAT aT
uadiva/aactrret At Hears BT Tz HAT, SAT PH aTST, TaTae arvaraaat * % few aT SI
a, Tava at aru & fare waedtest arer are 10 & Brea a atta aaa sh & tax wat/oear

Bre Saas Br TAT Ie Tedder ores Aer Be fre wet a ratte & Ps es a es aT
frac seqa Fe

a, wametedt arr ae | fer 15 fea & afta ate aor Il fer 1 wes tae Gera Pear STAT

sate tenets, vacate ara GA arrears sega Her 3 ASA Bh fhe WaT are ATTA

Ward Ber At hear BY TT eA * fore aah ware aw ara SI

4.4 aera aia & feat

Aaa Thapar a er ead sa ware ze:

ae. Werte aaa art qeatedt site cea oipareit ar aerate Ge ae few oe Ft
feafe # ofora epfters/waredteht aaaree oe utes Pear sat & atte waroetat ar ft arent
& aad fear sat 21

@.  awgnfta adt - afe vatveditet aratea years F 40% ata ore Het A fant tear Z aT
area At eT aaa BT TT Tet HLA F, TT aratat aqarfed ae Sf ate ATTA Tara AT
At srt 21

7 Cemey - afe ars wate Areca Ft ovat HT GT aT HAT SAT WaT aya are & fers |
MAST TAT WT Teqa Tet HAT @, TT ares 15 fea F Tar Hea} few wa aeqenres fea STAT
al afe 15 feat & are oft got erage sega set Pear ovat @, at 15 fea ar site aaa Be ET
afea atfee fear ara 21
aifan arfea & are ot aqurea a feo ore At feata F welt ar At we arerar freed ae at
ordt @ ite Sear are sear rat warrearet AT TT & eer fear sat Vi ale ae area & FH SAA
* Ted sa ae fhe a fare Pear ore araeay Ele ary wey aT Aaa TAT HAT EMT
Zaha ATET ATS Tare aT FATS Beata Fear Gaz

a. wy aan - afe Fre wat ae Marae Tega Hea @ rad atfera faacor vet fear war &
ar ae aaa areas (fe) site caefht ar fasrosr (Awe), FQTATA, Tartare feareor
arfe & few ana aeahtat dae F eft Fh aragaerarat at yet at HAT SZ, AT Ba ‘ATT
area’ At oat F car sat 21 wae ss araaa Hore we HT wat ar gaa Hea ZI ale
ale araed areas fare Z, dt aet araeaareit Br GT Hea BH Aa Sa IT at Breas Ft art
al
44 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

4.5 vette verasfararatt er vat
aan ae Vat ATTAT Tae He Te afsecoraroat BT eft eet aT a! A ATTA at Tt
Ql oa hla & cae faaroat ar aqared At ee ara’ watt A fear ara ZI
afe aqatied aot Ferrata 50% F HA ath Z, TT, TA UH Barat aT Pear Sa F
ae sae aquired At fearfe ar aft @ A aaa ot aha SAO |@ fast at get et sera
Prat rat  afe —
a. ae che F Seated aqara arasaparat BT YT Hear VTA: Ada F Geet A Gears FT
at BT EX HAT FI
GVA AAAI HaHa F 60% AT afer TTA ITA FLAT ZI
1, sae fag waite SFT GT He Ie Patna are Saat & fore arate ake ATeTAT
afate ar state fret
5.0 FARA TIT
aera aaa at don a afore aaeitars soared st Faaree ae Oat don eH AeA AAT aes
feu ora & fret aafera areet oe at at ort Si Areca PAS are aqaien FT adhe & wey ATT
tex vardtédiva ar ue aioe va Sor oat trad Aft afea aiea aat, Aoi afer
aqatfed fasrosit, aerat site waet aie aactret Ft faeqa svat, afe arg a, wr sere aa 21
vavdtédtue ar aera wart oe ath waht ate aac HT AAT Oe TT aT STAT FI
5.1 ARTA FATT TEA
yaa ate aera aa weed areft afte At arerat aaeiteré— waodtedt alte Ft
aragaparatt arrest AT ort a rerefts V1 ses Praferfers ofa zg eg sa oH ae seat 2:
%. AR Aeu, Wau, au >} adie sie aaa & fore Garr aie ares artars afea
udtat & agra Agere F refers worferatsrorrettat ar arateaat
aq, udtare at act can At fear dare aed rarer’ dare Het & fore siearfea far sat
@, fred oat & are at gor eet & fore Sao Fa sas arash oT are aeT
worefrat ar face ST
a. fase ar aaa oe oftearcs - afe are aqatfed He ar Fivs uetat Ft ars Sar Z, GT sa
uae fataface aaa A ce ort AT araeaHaT ZI
a. aRadat ft aan - area F yore, wore, warren siz aes afaereit & aafara ars at
afada art ft fearte A wee wets & hae seh ara CaS et St ret Sct 21
S. wearas Ft Prateat & arepare wares Bt gar vate Ars ar TATA
a. weltat arr dare Ft ws Pere ore F celta arr HT atte Etvars & arat ar Geta Het
eu wae aa wa fear ATAT Zl Fe HI Sah ST BETH eeaathea Sta ATT ae AST
aéat are ofa serrata sat arfer
a. cae at feate ft arrardt wa ates aragaean 2, cafe ort ate write Steive at art

qe Het & cet aie fetes ster fafaarear wa a arectas wears & feo orafe ster
aren ft safer chorea aaa sate a foro carer ar ahr Pau art Ft Sate 21
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

45

a. afar & ofte astt ifive siz Avice car eat F aeeat aT ere oe we fies aT
cadt arfen aie sad ater aett area wacdtédtoes  qearerhat waters Weare 7
 Se SAAT AAT HT Te S1 FSerost arr waar *& STH aA aes aera BA PH soar
At Raréatz at Ft oofeeeeea, ara satel sears ahs Tae ara ZI

a. wdtat ar are 5.3 F sfeafaa aratarareat & aedt & aaa anew ake ae afafera at
ae fe at vara Ft we aera feed vet At TE ZI

a. ude at Praferted aftere cad att (atre ar are eile F)

 i ORT Ft oer atari ar safeate cieexi

ii. Teuecrar ener ater Aen oF Here Peta aT (es gse A wees

yl

ii, fara oReatorrsit > fern feu we aa} ea 4, ates fastest Ah afta ar sar

iv. aatag facroat ft ratte aro gar sa aoa Ft tear re ars F Has eI

Vv. WANT ereaT ars site FUT Haters A aaa ast cera
5.2 ATTA F ae That

af, wa cerasfarat aot Ft aera araqaifed facrost ox arate @, aa: afe wa aqatied fasrosr
Wor FH BIS Fa Sate UH eA FH fae Ato Ft aragaHarat * eae TAA AT VEAL Z
at weet arr sat aaa waesdist et fear ara arfew wach arrest Yeates & Shera aT aT
Wea ve aeeit year aT Veer BOT AAT ae odes BT TeaTa HA A aH UH Tr
aera @, Bre aeficar & Sar sa ate sae TR eeT Wears te aft St aa ZI

Pret ft aaa gears & few we ae sree ar ett ar Ares we F yeaa Pear at aa SI TATA,

Test F at yeates Pou ae ate aqaried vet feo ae oft & arr F 3 welt H tare Hare St ST
apt a ex Het hh ferme aeaH TAT ET Tearharst Fa ST THAT SI

5.3 wera ar Pista farcedteco/ Paar

waved yearaa Ft ora & stereo sas are Peet At aera afer arearet oe WH area AT Area

at frefea ar freed ar facies ae aera &, feed 7 rafertaa om aia set 2:

co wauatsdine ft sears aaelt arasaparat Ae oat AT AAA AT SOTA TAT ATS BAIT
sah tora F aftte qeat & fer

a, afe are aqaifea faerorst area ais sar Zz, at Uetat at us aes hae wach at
sekt aaa et aah ate are at aera & tax wae itera qa es HAT aah SMT

TT. arrest Far aerated vediaat F Fear ar are HT Tee PATI

a. waTdtsat & aera rea, waves & areca va at ettearsyeaastedt ae ar art
STANT

. wauatsdive a arated & far oats aaa erat F aad aay
7. Peet oft as art (afrart apart) oRadat ate feat eat ht ara BaF feerar
46 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

3. udtatarr art seqdtecvarrsta F wavstedt ary ereqt oaert aca ahs ait
Fel, THe Tat BY ITA site/ar AST TST ATH TTT Wea BAT, AAT TAM,
feats ar ster Frearaen, searast ar arate Sorat ore ZI

T. warastarar aaah & fore arare afar Ar See
a. WATS are SAP AT TS BTS AKT oT BT THAT TAT Zl
Peaaficedtecofaarest ar rote waves st areca afate arer fear Sra 21
za araet oe atfae Poteet & fore wee eater aT ST ae S Se ATeTaT ahaa AY sega Pear oT
aha zl
5.4 Fearare/Hre ara & fore areas
 Tat AIAT TH EAT SA STAT HTS HATA A Peet wayceat at UH ae awh few sare ait
Peat ot apa & rear fora asfiz ercare  arare ae ares aaa arr Pear Se WA Wane rar
fader vate aah & ware A UA: alaea He aa aaa BH ATT Ao & sat A fra aT TH
amare at aera Pear sear frat ae fear war eh f H afe sea art Ft qacrafe art & at aaa
aed ar anreft Pret ft cacdtest area Shite F arr at & fro arora afta He Par se AST
afearr wae eroat (fetes tar Frese) * fee off ary eT
5.5 wrerhrar
vaca arr wasted at sega avt were At gaa, sera gar Reaveh ar ST arrest aT
aera & fer waves, qearereat, Areva site gadtth afafaat & aeeat art Pear area sat
Rae WaT, AIST ATT aT setter arts wafer ae aaeat & ara aft ax Pear
sre afe vetoes gaat at ares cea area @ at sae fore sre sat eu wacdtest Ft
waa afra wea arfeul sa dae F sagen Pore at fore waves ar afeenre er watt
arrra sirens ar aes a fore wate & eg Sra artars Hey ar aferare ft qefera aa Zl
water at any fate arqen wate sraer cast AT ater S aT seh arent arer at es at aaa Ft
arian Ft qzert At oT al et Sraeareit H Arete afaafa HF dhe ae wrt He we aah azar
aroat wr fer Fear St aa ZI

6.0 ferarra rarer tat

varra/cttance Ft ferarrat Fare & fare Ste & ateata at worefrat Saree F-

(*) fata AY afer
(a) attr

6.1 frofat ft after

afe variant warts are fore ae frett ot ote Ft aften/qateare arear & aT a see ere ara

TIA TAT TSET HT AT AIT

frrafafad sfar any 2:

(m)  wauetedt are warretat & ora arrest ret Ar aretha Bh wee area ae ast ea STAT 21
(@)   wacta F fataece foraraat (fatafece waht site al) ar secre Stat arfew aie cearasit
Tar Faw ert arfeul

(7) -Saravaey aq oe Fare vet Pear ST
[art I—ave 3(i)]

FIST BT UST» AATAT OT

47

6.2 atte

wirarere Aaa ae Hae Aferafeat ox At fare far sea She A seat areetT

arava a Pret at cee oe TA: arenes fore fare vet Pear seat
ve afters’ oe aareftar Genta Wearrst aa e At sown A ferare ear sar 21
tat seat Ft aria & vsvodtat art ara feat sat 21

TTT HA aes VaTa/vstaioe ate are at aera ea aS vet he GAA AAT AAT Ta
aT

uedt & frorat ade A safer trea ar afere Pear ara @ ste ageters Saaree Wz Tee

FRAT STAT SI

vat/odtiat ater Fota a wares a ert oe ater Be AAT
‘after # fafafece qe fire acftereff Great wer ter @, saga omer ett afew ate aes TET
aie arte & ferocite oft orrfrer ata arfeui afta sega aca aaa Praferfere paar ft ort art —

w. a.

 ater F vega | ater Fo vege | after att F yeqd | aa ae a av
fate az aaah SET afafe ar) afafon au qe aaTh-

fro aeaTast

Vv

7.0 AAaTe

wauatedt are acer Ft qemera H acstedt ats are die aeeiia after PA aT
Toa Brat wavdtedt are a ue ait ween aa we fag foros ofa sr

wearer ati Pate ar aqaran, sere, Tarstedt ars are far ora 21

afar & wre cearast wae aPrareaat are anita afafe a aeeat et vega fra
STAT Zl

afafe ara arare wfrar- afatea aaare Ft atta fora aed & fires sate F retest
afraraa are aftaretf at ara Pear sat 21 aaa H arterreff ett fore atereff
sa tora ar afagra sate ates fear smart 21 afafa atereff ar ate wardtedt
afraraa aT ara vet can & feroaere aaa adh a1 afafe sat celta art aa
faeae frare-faast & earg roar fore Sct 21

aria afate foie ft gaat wavehisdt arava art aiternat at at ort SI

afear

aft wefan at amare aaa ar STS A ores Hea ET Taras art afte ars A qae HAT
arerardt 21 Wat wat wea A aresa a Peat atra fcea ST ATI

7.1 ephterg site wae sat ait at STANT

a. waters a wardisét areca fare waist At aha & aar saat var fae 21
waved vearaa Paes & Sra & ere feor-frsart F ort ar aera aT ZI
48

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

vi.

 vii.

 i, wa et ater Tat Gest Asa aaTe HA Te aH HT Tera fear strat @, wavetsat
wafers frara at cearas fare & sears fore erat are A ara FT

ii, Were Reg ar saa Hat WaT es F vearita weraeff arsat art A Peat sre
@. wera Pre & sears fore feen-Pear ae

waUatset ATTA WATT We ATT Paes BT HAT SAT ATA Ara se Aha H te Ae
PRAT ST THAT SI

ward Pree ar Sea Wee ATTA ST Hh Aaa Was St HT AGATA STAT TATSTHAT 2h
qara & foro vet Feat se

wear fare ar soar te ferett oft eo A ae rar Sea St ere eto Be ATH A Fears
are F arent BT ala HAT ST

yar Pre sate vet f aa seat saa arated F frathee maer areca Teast AST
are a fear sam

areaa & feta aera ed aera Seaht aaa ae wearsast (Tat aaarita) ceaHeff Het
are ae sare & Ata vara & wach areaar Pes & Sua BT aaa ae TT rast
water aaah, Hex SS, ST ex, Tere, aries Pearé, fara ares, Taare gar fara are
ofr ZI

vauatedt war aaa rat F aftadst at ar afer cea @ aa sae Ade A coeff
areata afaa Pear seam

years reg ar saat maet Tet areat % fre z, safes ereatt & fre adh

TT. AST

a. waudtédt aoe afer a 4 gear Pee ar aha Seat AT et aT ATI

@ yar * geaam a amen afta F aa oe wavetedt areca & Pctaav/errar
Farcediercor & fer afar arepare arcane ae aad SI

7.2 Terasht Asal Set TTT T
rome aed Prafafad sarade ea S-

a. ofa, et ate faa Aaara Tah a ars eT
a. att ae art & of fear et ae ara sera ae, AST ate Sa Ba a TT TI

wT. aa & feo oes a afta ga ar fase scant ate sa dae Fore aaa TAT

srraret Ft atria FATT TSAI

a. Gad ara/a-aaries Pare dare Hea HF aT Tat F arqarfed fasrost F fasrosrar ar zt

sar

Ss. feat cece Brae art cara St aera Z, A aT
a. Wren azar seh viata feat & Peet ft cence ar cerarea eters aT HAT
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

49

gy. waved ate sere ores afer Pratt At corearce Ft wfter a wider Het at HAT
ao. waved & Peet off strate ara ofthat F yr eo & aa

ATTA F TS Vat “TST TAT SAT ATTA Fae HA Tet afew FH fore arare Sea” Ve SETA
Ra & ae Sa WAS arava Bt Tt HAT ZI

["T.4.34011/28/201 o-ariinea]
wart ware oft, aa at

feorm:- ye faa, AT USAT, AT-M, GIS 3, SI-ave (ii) , afeaat Heats aa. 1398,
aréta 26 warez, 1960 4 warisre Pao ae & ate cerca aettet afer Hearty aT.aT. A. 710 (a)
aréta 8 apex, 2014 F warfsre ew 7 aT

MINISTRY OF COAL
NOTIFICATION
New Delhi, the 29th May, 2020

G.S.R. 331(E).—In exercise of the powers conferred by section 13 of the Mines and Minerals
(Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules
further to amend the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960, namely:—

1. Short title and commencement.—(1) These rules may be called the Mineral Concession (Amendment) Rules,
2020.

 (2) Save as otherwise provided in these rules, they shall come into force on the date of their publication in the
Official Gazette.

 2. In the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960 (hereinafter referred to as the principal rules), for rule 2, the
following rule shall be substituted, namely:—

‘2. Definitions.—(1) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,—
(i) “Act” means the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957);

(ii) “block boundary” shall mean the geographical boundary of the coal or lignite block expressed by way of co-
ordinates specified in the allocation order issued under section 11A of the Act or a notification of reservation
issued under section 17A of the Act or vesting order or allotment order issued under the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Act, 2015 (1 lof 2015) or any other instrument or order issued under any other law in force entitling a
person to carry out prospecting or mining operations;

(iii) “Form” means a form specified in Schedule I to these rules;

(iv) “geological report” means the detailed report prepared upon completion of prospecting operations in any area
containing coal or lignite comprising of all geological, geophysical, exploration, core coal or lignite analysis,
hydrological, geo-engineering and other information regarding exploration, location or proof of mineral deposits,
acquired during the prospecting operations conducted in such area and includes drilling log;

(v) “illegal mining” means any reconnaissance or prospecting or mining operation undertaken by any person or a
company in any area without holding a reconnaissance permit or a prospecting licence or as the case may be, a
mining lease as required under sub-section(1) of section 4 of the Act.

Explanation. — For the purpose of this clause,—

(a) violation of any rules, other than the rules made under section 23C of the Act, within the mining lease area by
a holder of a mining lease shall not include illegal mining;

(b) any area granted under a reconnaissance permit or a prospecting licence or a mining lease, as the case may be
shall be considered as an area held with lawful authority by the holder of such permit of licence or a lease, while
determining the extension of illegal mining;

(vi) “project proponent” shall include an allocatee of the coal block under section 11A of the Act or a Government
company or corporation in whose favour an area containing coal or lignite is reserved under section 17A of the
50 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

Act or a successful bidder or an allottee of a coal mine under the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of
2015) or any other project proponent having right under any other law in force to carry out prospecting operations
or mining operations for coal or lignite;

(vii) “railway” and “railway administration” have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Indian
Railways Act, 1890 (9 of 1890);

(viii) “Schedule” means a Schedule appended to these rules;
(x) “section” means a section of the Act.

 (2) The words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Act or in the Coal Block Allocation
Rules, 2017 made thereunder or in the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of 2015) or the rules made
thereunder shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the said Acts or the rules.”.

 3. In the principal rules, in rule 8,—

(a) for the words and figure “and Chapter IV”, the words, figures and letter “, Chapter [V and Chapter IVA” shall
be substituted; and

(b) for the words “and mining leases”, the words “, mining leases and prospecting licence-cum-mining leases”
shall be substituted.

 4. In the principal rules, after Chapter III, the following chapter shall be inserted, namely:—
“CHAPTER IIIA
Geological Reports

21A. Applicability—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in Chapter III, Chapter V and Chapter VI of these
tules, the provisions of this chapter shall apply in respect of all land containing coal or lignite.

 (2) On and from the commencement of the Mineral Concession (Amendment) Rules, 2020, conduct of prospecting
operations and preparation of geological report in respect of any area containing coal or lignite shall be governed
by the provisions of this chapter.

 21B. Prospecting operations and preparation of geological report.—(1) For conduct of prospecting operations
and preparation of geological report, a project proponent may—

(i) engage any person upon obtaining prospecting licence or prospecting licence-cum-mining lease from the
State Government;

(ii) engage an entity specified in or notified by the Central Government under the second proviso of sub-
section (1) of section 4 of the Act; or

(ili) engage any Accredited Prospecting Agency, notified under second proviso to sub-section (1) of section 4
of the Act.

 (2) Every prospecting operation shall be undertaken and geological report prepared in accordance with Indian
Standard Procedure for Coal Resource Estimation issued by the Central Geological Programming Board of
Geological Survey of India or any other standard procedure specified by the Central Government.

 (3) Every person, entity or agency conducting the prospecting operations under sub-rule (1), shall submit a report
of the work done by it during each half of financial year, stating the number of persons and machineries engaged
and disclosing the complete geological data, geophysical data and all other information collected during the period
to the Central Mine Planning and Design Institute Limited, a Government company and to the State Government
within three months from the close of the half year to which it relates.

 (4) On the completion or abandonment of prospecting operations o r termination of the prospecting licence,
whichever is earlier, such person, entity or agency shall also submit a report of the work done along with all
information relevant to mineral resources acquired by it in the course of prospecting operations.

 (5) The project proponent as well as the person, entity or agency, as the case may be, referred to in sub-rule (1),
shall be responsible for the data furnished in the geological report.
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

51

21C. Accreditation system for prospecting operations and preparation of geological report.—The QCI-
NABET shall grant accreditation to Accredited Prospecting Agency for undertaking prospecting operations and
preparation of geological report in accordance with standards and procedures specified in Schedule VI of these
tules.”.

 5. In the principal rules, in rule 22,—

(i) in sub-rule (4), the portion beginning with the words “On the receipt of the application” and ending with the
words “the Central Government for its approval.” shall be omitted; and

(ii) sub-rules (4A), (4B), (5) and (6) shall be omitted.
 6. In the principal rules, for rule 22A, the following rules shall be substituted, namely: —

“22A.— Mining operations to be in accordance with mining plan— On and from the expiry of a period of nine
months from the commencement of the Mineral Concession (Amendment) Rules, 2020,—

(a) no mining operations shall be undertaken except in accordance with the mining plan, which—

(i) _ has been approved under clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 5 of the Act and in accordance with rule
22B; or

(ii) is in accordance with the system established by the State Government for preparation, certification and
monitoring of mining plan under the proviso to clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 5 of the Act and
tule 22AA:

 Provided that the mining operations shall continue to be governed by the existing mining plan approved prior to
commencement of the Mineral Concession (Amendment) Rules, 2020, until the same is modified;

(b) any modification in the existing mining plan during the operation of a mining lease shall also be done in
accordance with clause (a).

 22AA.— System to be established by the State Government for mining plan—(1) The system to be
established by the State Government under sub-clause (ii) of clause (a) of rule 22A for preparation, certification
and monitoring of mining plan shall be submitted to the Central Government for approval.

 (2) The State Government shall seek previous approval of the Central Government for any modification of the
system.

 (3) The Central Government shall dispose of, with or without modifications, the proposals received from the State
Government for approval of system referred in sub-rule (1) or modification of a system referred in sub-rule (2),
within a period of three months from the date of receipt of such proposal:

Provided that the Central Government may revoke such approval for reasons to be recorded in writing and duly
communicated to the State Government.”.

 7. In the principal rules, for rule 22B, the following rule shall be substituted, namely:—

“22B. Preparation and approval of mining plan. — (1) Every mining plan other than those covered under the
proviso to clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 5 of the Act shall be prepared and submitted for approval under
this rule, within a period of six months of the preparation of geological report:

Provided that in cases where geological report has been prepared prior to issuance of allocation order or vesting
order or allotment order or notification of reservation under section 17A of the Act, and the said geological report
is in accordance with sub-rule (2) of rule 21B, the period of six months for preparation and submission of mining
plan shall be reckoned from the date of such allocation order, vesting order, allotment order or notification, as the
case may be.

 (2) For preparation of mining plan under sub-rule (1), a project proponent may engage,—
(i) a person having the following qualifications and experience, namely: —

(a) a degree in mining engineering or a degree in opencast mining or a degree in mining machinery or a post-
graduate degree in geology granted by a university established or incorporated by or under a Central Act, a
Provincial Act or a State Act, including any institutions recognised by the University Grants Commission under
section 4 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 (3 of 1956) or any equivalent qualification granted by
any university or institution outside India and recognised by Government of India, and

(b) professional experience of five years of working in a supervisory capacity in the field of mining after obtaining
the degree; or
52 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(ii) a Mining Plan Preparing Agency accredited for preparation of mining plan by the QCI-NABET.

 (3) The QCI-NABET shall grant accreditation in accordance with standards and procedures prescribed in Schedule
VI of these rules.

 (4) Every mining plan shall be prepared,—

(i) _ on the basis of a geological report prepared in accordance with rule 21B;

(ii) in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Central Government in this regard; and
(iii) for an area within the block boundary:

Provided that the mining plan may cover an area beyond the block boundary not containing coal or lignite on a
certificate issued to that effect by the State Government and that it intends to grant mining lease for such extended
area.

 (5) The project proponent and the qualified person or the Mining Plan Preparing Agency shall be responsible,—
(i) for the data furnished in the mining plan;

(ii) that the mining plan has been prepared in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Central
Government in this regard by a person possessing the qualifications and experience specified in clause (i)
of sub-rule (2) or by a Mining Plan Preparing Agency.

 (6) The project proponent shall submit the mining plan for approval to such officer or authority as may be notified
by the Central Government, accompanied with the following, namely:—

(i) _ such non-refundable fee as may be specified by the Central Government; and

(ii) a certificate from the project proponent to the effect that the area covered in the mining plan is not
beyond the block boundary or in case the area covered under the mining plan extends beyond the block
boundary, a certificate issued by the State Government as specified in the proviso to clause (iii) of sub-
rule (4).

 (7) Such officer or authority shall, within a period of thirty days from the date of receiving the mining plan, grant
approval or direct correction in the mining plan or pass any such order as it may deem fit:

 Provided that the aforesaid period of thirty days shall be applicable only if the mining plan is complete in all
respects and in case any modification is directed by such officer or authority after the initial submission of the
mining plan for approval, the said period shall be applicable from the date of submission of the revised mining
plan.

 (8) A project proponent aggrieved by any order made or direction under sub-rule (7) may, within thirty days of the
communication of such order or direction, apply to the Central Government for a revision of such order or
direction thereof.

 (9) On receipt of an application for revision, the Central Government shall give a hearing to the aggrieved project
proponent and may confirm, modify or set aside the order or direction within thirty days and the decision of the
Central Government in this regard shall be final.”.

 8. In the principal rules, rules 22BB and 22C shall be omitted.
 9. In the principal rules, after rule 22D, the following rules shall be inserted, namely: —

“22E. Modification of approved mining plan.—(1) Subject to provisions of sub-rule (3), in case of any
modification in the approved mining plan, the project proponent shall submit the modified mining plan in
accordance with rule 22B for approval of the officer or authority notified under sub-rule (6) of rule 22B.

(2) The modification under sub-rule (1) shall be on any of the following grounds, namely: —
(i) | change in method of mining;

(ii) for facilitating increase in sanctioned peak capacity that is in excess of one hundred and fifty per cent. of
the sanctioned rated capacity of the mine;

(ili) change in leased area;
(iv) in the interest of safe and scientific mining;
(v) conservation of minerals;

(vi) for the protection of environment;
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

53

(vii) addition of reserve by way of proving of reserve in the existing lease area;
(viii) for change in final mine closure conditions; or
(ix) such other grounds as may be determined by the Central Government:

 Provided that in case of allocated coal mines or blocks, prior approval of the nominated authority or the Central
Government shall be required for any modification in the mining plan which result in changes in the terms and
conditions or efficiency parameters specified in the agreement entered between the nominated authority or the
Central Government and the project proponent, as the case may be.

 (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1), the project proponent may carry on the following minor
changes in the approved mining plan and submit specific proposal pursuant to such changes to the Coal Controller
with a copy to the Central Government for information, namely:—

(i) change in land type within the leased area;
(ii) change in heavy earth moving machinery deployment; or
(iii) change in location of infrastructure within the leased area.

 22F. Misrepresentation.— (1) Any misrepresentation by the project proponent in the mining plan, modification
or minor change in the mining plan or any other related documents submitted to the approving officer or authority
or the Central Government or the State Government, shall constitute contravention of these rules and render such
mining plan, modification or minor change as void.”.

 10. In the principal rules, in rule 24, after sub-rule (5),the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely:—

“(6) The State Government shall examine an application for grant of mining lease and pass an order in writing for
disposal of such application.”.

 11. Amendment of rule 24A.— In the principal rules, in rule 24A, after sub-rule (1), the following sub-rule shall
be inserted, namely: —

“(2) If an application for renewal of a mining lease made within the time referred to in sub-rule (1) is not disposed
of by the State Government before the date of expiry of the lease, the period of that lease shall be deemed to have
been extended by a period of two years or till the State Government passes order thereon, whichever is earlier.”.

 12. In the principal rules, after Chapter IV, the following chapter shall be inserted, namely: —
“CHAPTER IVA

PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING PROSPECTING LICENCE-CUM-MINING LEASE OF COAL AND
LIGNITE IN RESPECT OF LAND IN WHICH THE MINERALS VEST IN THE GOVERNMENT

40A. Applicability of this Chapter: The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to the grant of prospecting
licence-cum-mining lease of coal and lignite in respect of land in which the minerals vest in the Government.

 40B. Application for prospecting licence-cum-mining lease.—(1) Upon grant of allocation order or vesting
order or allotment order, as the case may be, a successful allocatee shall make an application in Form Q for grant
of prospecting licence-cum-mining lease, along with such order and any other supporting do cuments before such
officer or authority as the State Government may specify:

Provided that the State Government may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, relax requirement of submission of
any of the documents specified in this sub-rule:

Provided further that a successful allocatee may engage an entity under the second proviso of sub-section (1) of
section 4 of the Act, in which case, such allocatee shall apply for grant of mining lease after preparation of
geological report in accordance with rule 21B and approval of mining plan in accordance with rule 22B and the
provisions of Chapter IV shall apply on application, grant and conditions of such mining lease.

 (2) Every application for the grant of prospecting licence-cum-mining lease shall be accompanied by,—
(a) non-refundable fee of ten thousand rupees;

(b) all documents required for grant of a prospecting licence as specified under rule 9; and

(c) the security deposit specified under rule 20.

 40C. Acknowledgement and disposal of application for prospecting licence-cum-mining lease-—(1) Receipt
of an application for grant of prospecting licence-cum-mining lease shall be duly acknowledged by the State
Government.
 54 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(2) The State Government shall execute a prospecting licence deed in Form F, within a period of ninety days from
the date of receiving of such application, complete in all respects.

 (3)The provisions of rules 14, 16, 18, 19, and 21shall apply to such prospecting licence.

 40D. Conduct of prospecting operations. — (1) Upon execution of a prospecting licence deed, the said allocatee
within the period specified in section 7 of the Act, shall undertake prospecting operations, prepare geological
report in accordance with rule 21B and submit a mining plan for approval in accordance with rule 22B.

40E. Conduct of mining operations. — (1) Upon approval of mining plan, the said allocatee shall submit a copy
of such approval to the State Government alongwith all documents required for grant of mining lease as specified
under rule 22 for execution of mining lease deed of prospecting licence-cum-mining lease:

Provided that the State Government may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, relax requirement of submission of
any the documents specified in rule 22:

Provided further that the State Government may, with previous approval of the Central Government, impose such
other conditions for conduct of mining operations in the mining lease deed, as it may deem fit.

 (2) The State Government shall execute a mining lease deed in Form K of the Schedule I, within a period of ninety
days from the date of receiving of such documents complete in all respects.

 (3) The provisions of rules 22A, 22AA, 22B, 22D, 22E, 22F, 27, 29A, 30, 32, 33, 36, 37, 37A, 38 and 40 shall
apply mutatis mutandis, to such mining lease.

 40F. Renewal of prospecting licence.—(1) An application for renewal of a prospecting licence under the
prospecting licence-cum-mining lease deed for the purpose of completing prospecting operations, shall be made
at least ninety days before the expiry of the prospecting licence and shall be accompanied by a statement
containing, -

(a) reasons for renewal;

(b) areport of the details of prospecting operations undertaken by the applicant;

(c) the details of expenditure incurred;

(d) the number of man days for which the work was undertaken; and

(e) _ the justification for the additional period required to complete the prospecting work.

 (2) Receipt of an application for renewal shall be duly acknowledged by the State Government within three days
of receipt of such application.

 (3) The application for renewal shall be accompanied by non-refundable fee of rupees one thousand per square
kilometre on a pro rata basis of the area for which the renewal of the prospecting licence is applied for.

 (4) The State Government may condone delay in submission of an application for renewal of a prospecting licence
made after the time limit specified in sub-rule (1), provided that such application has been made before the expiry
of the prospecting licence.

 (5) An application for the renewal of a prospecting licence shall be disposed of by the State Government before
the expiry of the period of prospecting licence and if application is not disposed of within that period, the license
shall be deemed to have been renewed for a period not exceeding the period for renewal of prospecting license
under sub-section (2) of section 7 of the Act, or the period for which the application is made, whichever is less.

 40G. Renewal of mining lease. — (1) An application for renewal of mining lease under the prospecting licence-
cum-mining lease shall be dealt with in accordance with rules 24A and 24B, as the case may be.”.

 13. In the principal rules, in rule 45, for clause (ia), the following clause shall be substituted, namely: —

“(ia) mining operations shall be undertaken in accordance with the mining plan, prepared and approved under rule
22B and modified under rule 22E;”.

 14. In the principal rules, rule 52 shall be omitted.
 15. In the principal rules, after Chapter X, the following chapter shall be inserted, namely: —
“CHAPTER XI
Penalty

76. Penalty Any contravention of the provisions of these rules shall be punishable in accordance with the
provisions of sub-section (2) of section 21 of the Act.”.

 16. In the principal rules, in Schedule I, after Form P, the following form shall be inserted, namely: —
[art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

55

“Form Q
MODEL FORM
APPLICATION FOR GRANT OF PROSPECTING LICENCE-CUM-MINING LEASE
 [See rule 40A]

(To be submitted in triplicate)

 Through....

Sir,

Toe , the authorized signatory of .......... (name of successful allocatee company or corporation) request that
a prospecting licence-cum-mining lease under the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960 be granted to .......... (name

of successful allocatee company or corporation).

 2.A sum often thousand rupees in accordance with Rule 40Aof the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960 has been

deposited.

 3.The required particulars are given below:—

i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
(v)

(vi)

(vii)
(viii)
(ix)
(x)

(xi)

(xii)

 Name of the applicant with complete address.

 Is the applicant a private company, public company or corporation?

 An attested copy of the certificate of registration of the company or corporation shall be enclosed.
 Nature of business of applicant.

 Number and date of the valid clearance certificate of payment of mining dues(copy enclosed) or
affidavit when not holding any mining lease.

 If on the date of application the applicant does not hold a prospecting licence, it should be stated
whether an affidavit to this effect has been furnished to the satisfaction of the State Government.

 Mineral or minerals which the applicant intends to prospect and mine.
 Period of prospecting licence stage for which the prospecting licence-cum-mining lease is required
Extent of the area the applicant wants to prospect.

 Details of the area in respect of which prospecting licence-cum-mining lease is required. (District,
Taluq, Village, Khasra No., Plot No., Area, etc.)

(a) Does the applicant have surface rights over the area for which he requires a prospecting licence?

(b) If not, has he obtained the consent of the owner, and the occupier of the land for undertaking
prospecting operations. If so, the consent of the owner and the occupier obtained in writing be filed.

 Brief description of the area with particular reference to the following:
(a) the situation of the area in respect to natural features such as streams etc.

(b) in the case of village, areas, the name of the village and if only a part of the village is applied for, the
khasra number, the area in hectares of each field or part thereof applied for.

 N.B. - The areas shall cover whole or recognised part survey numbers.

 (c) In the case of forest areas, the name of the working circle, the range and the felling series.
 56 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(d) For areas where no forest maps or cadestral maps are available, a sketch plan should be submitted on scale
showing the area applied for together with boundary, if any, of any other existing mining lease or
prospecting licence area if the area applied for has any common point or line with the boundaries of
existing prospecting licence or mining lease areas.

 (xiii) The areas applied for should be marked on plans as detailed below:

(a) In case a cadestral map of the area is available, the area on this map should be marked showing the
name of the village, Khasra number and area in hectares of each field and part thereof.

 N.B. - The area applied for shall cover whole survey numbers.

 (b) In the case of forest maps, the area should be marked on the map showing the range and felling
series.

 (c) In case neither cadestral nor forest maps are available, the area should be marked on sketch plan
drawn to scale showing on this plan all important surface and natural features, the dimensions of the
lines forming the boundary of the area and the bearing and distance of all corner points from any
important, prominent and fixed point or points.

 (xiv) An affidavit, that the up-to-date income tax returns, as prescribed under the Income Tax Act, 1961, have
been filed, and tax due, including the tax on account of self-assessment has been paid.

(xv) Particulars of the areas mineral-wise within the jurisdiction of the State Government for which the
applicant or any person joint in interest with him:

(a) already holds under prospecting licence and mining lease;
(b) has already applied for but not granted;
(c) being applied for simultaneously.

 (xvi) Nature of joint in interest, if any.

(xvii) If the applicant intends to supervise the works, his previous experience of prospecting and mining
should be explained; If he intends to appoint a manager, the name of such manager, his qualifications,
nature and extent of his previous experience should be specified and his consent letter should be

attached.
 (xviii) Financial resources of the applicant.
(xix) Particulars of receipted treasury challan attached for the amount referred to at 2 above.
 (xx) Any other particulars or sketch map which the Applicant wishes to furnish.
 (xxi) Authorization letter/ power of attorney from the successful allocatee company authorising the

authorised signatory to submit the application for prospecting licence-cum-mining lease is enclosed.

 I/We do hereby declare that the particulars furnished above are correct and am/are ready to furnish any other
details, including accurate plans as may be required by you.

 Yours faithfully,

(Signature and designation of the applicant)

Place

Date

Note:

 1- The application should relate to one compact area only.

 2. Such large-size map, as may be available, should be attached for proper demarcation of the areas, specially
when the area Applied for is 40 hectares or less.

 3. Detailed plan and topographical map are to be attached in triplicate with the original application.”.

 17. In the principal rules, after Schedule V, the following schedule shall be inserted, namely:—
“Schedule VI
 [see rule 21C(2) and 22B(3)]

(Standards and procedures for accreditation)
(art I—ave 3(i)] AT BT UTI : TATATLOT 57

1. Scheme for Accreditation of Accredited Prospecting Agency (APA)
2. Scheme for Accreditation of Mining Plan Preparing Agency (MPPA)
INDEX

1.0 SCHEME FOR ACCREDITATION
11 Eligibility for Accreditation
1.2 Scope of the Scheme
1.2.1 Scheme for A ccreditation of Accredited Prospecting Agency (APA)
1.2.1.1 Qualification and experience of experts
1.2.2 Scheme for Accreditation of Accredited Mining Plan Preparing Agency (MPPA)
1.2.2.1 Qualification and experience of experts
1.3 Coverage of the scheme
1.4 Updation of the scheme
2.0 REQUIREMENTS OF ACCREDITATION
2.1 Human Resources
2.1.1 Project Coordinator (PC)
2.1.2 Technical Area Expert (TAE)
2.1.3. Team members (TM)
 2.1.4 General conditions for experts
2.2 Field Investigation and Laboratory Arrangement
2.2.1 Laboratory Arrangement for Analysis and Records of Data
2.2.2 Analytical Parameters
2.3 Suitable Infrastructure, P & M, Software, Office and Equipments
2.4 Quality Management System (QMS)
2.5 Quality of Prospecting (Gr), Mining Plan and Pre-feasibility/ feasibility Reports
2.6 Organizational Commitment
3.0 ACCREDITATION CYCLE
 4.0 ACCREDITATION PROCESS

4.1 Application assessment process
4.2 Decision making process
4.3 Time frame for application and accreditation processes
4.4 Accreditation process outcome
4.5 Category of accredited consultants
5.0 GRANT OF ACCREDITATION
5.1 Maintaining Accreditation
5.2 Changes after accreditation
5.3 Suspension/Cancellation/Debarment of Accreditation
5.4 Actions for Misconduct/Fraudulent Activities

 5.5 Confidentiality
6.0 GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL MECHANISM

6.1 Review of decisions
58 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

6.2 Appeal
7.0 CODE OF CONDUCT
7.2 Undertaking by consultant organization

1.0 SCHEME FOR ACCREDITATION

NABET, a constituent Board of the QCI, developed Accreditation Scheme for Prospecting and Mining Plan
Preparation Agencies/ Organizations (hereinafter called ‘the Scheme’) with inputs from various stakeholders
including experts in the field, regulatory agencies and consultants.

 This document describes the scheme’s requirements of human resources, consultancy quality assurance systems
and procedures to be followed, the assessment process and the accreditation criteria. Various aspects of the
scheme are-

a) Eligibility (who can get accredited) and coverage of the scheme
b) Human resource — qualification and experience requirement

c) Scope of accreditation

d) Consultant organization quality assurance system (CQAS)

e) Assessment and accreditation process

f) Closure/suspension/delisting/on hold etc. Of applications

For the implementation of the Scheme, NABET is guided by a group of eminent professionals in the field of
Prospecting and Mining and allied subjects and structured secretariat.

 One complete cycle of Accreditation covering 3-year period comprising Initial Accreditation, Surveillance
Assessment and Re-accreditation process. All the three processes involve assessment in 3 stages:

Stage I - Checking completeness of the application by NABET secretariat
Stage II - Technical review of documents
Stage II - Office assessment

11 Eligibility for accreditation

Only organizations meeting the eligibility criteria of this Scheme are considered for accreditation. These
consultant organizations can include government bodies, public sectors undertakings and private organizations
which could be proprietorship firms, partnership firms or companies (Pvt. & Public Limited), bodies registered
under Society Acts, under Section 25 of Companies Act, Research Institutes and the like. All requirements of the
Scheme as mentioned in this document are to be complied with for an organization to get accredited. A sole
proprietorship owned by an individual or in personal name can also apply if it fulfils all other requirements of the
Scheme.

 1.2 Scope of the Scheme

The Scheme covers the scopes for Prospecting and Mining Plan Preparation Agency who will prepare Geological
Report (GR) and Mining Plan entrusted by project proponent. Hence the scheme is divided into two sections
describing guidelines for accreditation of scope viz.

 1. Scheme for Accreditation of Accredited Prospecting Agency (APA)
2. Scheme for Accreditation of Mining Plan Preparing Agency (MPPA)
1.2.1 Scheme for Accreditation of Accredited Prospecting Agency

Any Prospecting Agency (Applicant Consultant Organization) must have expertise in all the relevant fields or can
have MoU with agencies having particular expertise if they are short of any specific area for preparation of
comprehensive geological report. The Accredited Prospecting Agency (APA) organisation can provide
consultancy for prospecting services required for Geological Report (GR) preparation. APA should cover
following aspects —

a. Drilling (Coring & Non-coring)
 b. — Topographical Survey
c. | Geo-physical survey (borehole & surface)

 d. In-seam Seismic survey, HRSS, Seismic Refraction
 [art I—ave 3(i)] Ue FT UAT: AAT ATT 59
e. Interpretation of Stratigraphy & structure
Coal Quality assessment
g.  Geo-technical studies
h. | Geo-chemical testing
i. Hydro geological studies
Geological Modelling
k. — Coal / Mineral Resource Evaluation
facility for preserving drilling cores, with self/ drilling partner
1.2.1.1 QUALIFICATION, EXPERIENCE AND FUNCTIONS OF EXPERTS
Experts involved in the Geological Reports preparation comprise Project Coordinator (Prospecting) and
Technical Area Experts (TAE). They may be helped by team members. The qualification and experience
requirements of the experts and roles envisaged for them are detailed below-
Al. Project coordinator (Prospecting):
A1.1 Minimum educational qualifications
a. Master’s (post-graduate) degree) M. Tech in_ either  subject- Geology/ Applied
Geology/Geophysics/Hydrogeology/Remote Sensing & GIS/ from a UGC/AICTE recognized
University/ Institution or equivalent.
 b. Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
 A1.2 Experience of Project Coordinator

a. Minimum 15 years overall work experience after the completion of above-mentioned qualifying
degrees.

 b. Officers retired/served for minimum 15 years in Central/ State Government/ Research Institutes/
universities/ Colleges as Geologist will be considered to fulfill the minimum experience.

 c. Proficient in MS office, CAD, ArcGIS, Modelling Software, Data Processing Tools, Geological
Modelling Tools.

 A 1.3 Specific Experience in Prospecting:

AlA4

a. Project Coordinator(PC) must have Specific experience related to planning and managing the
advanced Prospecting projects

b. Designing and implementing QAQC protocols
Geological modelling and Geostatistical analysis,

d. Resource Estimation and Resource classification in accordance with UNFC, NI 43-101, JORC and
SAMREC reporting codes.

 e. Prepared at least 3 Geological Report.
 f. Monitoring of 3 Geological Report (auditing, performance evaluation etc.),
g. A total of three in combination of (e) and (f)

Expected functions of Project coordinators (Prospecting):

The Project coordinator should be thoroughly aware of Prospecting methodology, requirements and be familiar
with the guidelines of report preparation, MMDR Act, Prospecting rules and all relevant regulations and its
Amendments. S/he must have a clear concept and thorough knowledge of prospecting and Prospecting
requirements. S/he should share this information with other team members.

 The expected functions of Project Coordinator are as follows:

a) Complete understanding about the project specification, develop broad scoping of the project
taking into consideration site specific requirements

b) Meeting with project Director/Owner, framing the methodology for Prospecting program.

 c) Indepth understanding in respect of topography, hydrology streams, Geology, Hydrogeology, land
use etc.,
60

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

g)

Visiting the site for appropriate duration for the selection of sampling locations and deciding the
type of samples in consultation with the TAEs.

 Collating and reviewing the reports of the TAEs which must include analysis and interpretation of
data.

 Developing the draft Geological Report and circulating the same amongst team members for final
feedback and ensuring completeness of the report.

 Discussing the draft Geological Report with the project directors/owners for their comments.

 The following areas of expertise have been identified which are required for carrying out these studies-

ii.

 Geology GEO
Geophysics GP
Remote Sensing & GIS RS
Surveying SUR
Hydrogeology HG

A2.0 Technical Area Expert (Prospecting):

A2.1 Minimum educational qualifications

a.

 Cc.

Master’s (post-graduate) degree/ M.Tech - (Geology, Applied Geology, Geophysics, Hydrogeology,
and Remote Sensing & GIS) from a UGC/AICTE recognized University/ Institution.

 OR

Bachelor’s degree/diploma or equivalent in technical subjects such as Mechanical (Drilling),
Geotechnical and Earth Resource Engineering and equivalent from a UGC/AICTE recognized
University/ Institution.

 Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.

 A2.2 | Minimum Experience for Technical Area Expert (TAE)

a.

 An expert should have a minimum 5 years overall experience in the concerned technical area(s)
knowledge in preparing Prospecting/ Geological report(s).

 Officers retired/served for minimum 5 years in Central/ State Mining Departments/Organization/
Research Institutes/ universities/ Colleges as Geologist, Geophysicist, Remote Sensing & GIS expert
and Hydrogeologist will be considered if work in the respective areas.

 Proficient in MS office, CAD, ArcGIS, Modelling Software, Data Processing Tools, Geological
Modelling Tools.

 A2.3 Specific Educational Qualification and Experience for each TAE
 A 2.3.1 Technical Area Expert - Geology (GEO):

a. Educational qualifications specific to functional area

ii.

 Master’s (post-graduate) degree/ M. Tech in either subject- Geology/ Applied Geology from a
UGC/AICTE recognized University/ Institution or equivalent.

 Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.

 b. Experience specific to functional area must include

i. Hands-on experience in geological Prospecting, mapping, and data interpretation

Knowledge of geological principles, basin modelling and mineral reserves

Preparation of ore body model using SW like Minex, Datamine, Geosoft, Minesoft, Surpac, AutoCAD,
etc.

Familiarity with Prospecting geology concepts and survey processes
Ability to interpret 2D/3D seismic data and create geologic maps and models
Ability to identify natural resources and determine their economic value

High level of analytical skills to interpret Prospecting data pertaining to mineral prospects.
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

viii.

 Cc.

 A 2.3.2

ii.

ii.

iii.

Experience in Coal/ Metal mining model preparation is preferred
Role and Responsibilities

Performs scouting of Prospecting activities in the region, preparation of Prospecting activity plans
and budget

Execution of drilling operations at prospective locations, Collection, evaluation and reporting on field
samples and prepare activity logs.

 Created and presented accurate geology-based maps, cross sections, and geological models.
 Directed, supervised and managed all work performed by field crews and drillers.

 Entered and maintained sample information and Prospecting data in relevant database.
Interpreted and complied with all applicable governmental regulations and laws.

 Evaluation of geological & mineable resources of proposals received from national & international
prospects;

Research on the feasibility of developing these mineral prospects by analysing, reviewing, and
forecasting data for operational and business planning and preparation of the feasibility study report.

 Study  of available GSI, MECL and other Prospecting reports, compilation and correlation for
assessing the likely potentiality of the mineral prospect.

 Technical Area Expert - Geophysics (GP):
Educational qualifications specific to functional area

Master’s (post-graduate) degree/ M. Tech in either subject- Geophysics/ Applied Geophysics from a
UGC/AICTE recognized University/ Institution or equivalent.

 Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.

 Experience specific to functional area must include

. Planning and execution of Geophysical Surveys including special studies using suitable geophysical

technique and equipment.

 Geophysical methods comprise of measurement of signals from natural or induced phenomena of
physical properties of sub surface formation.

 Various physical properties that are made use of in different geophysical techniques are electrical
conductivity, magnetic susceptibility, density, elasticity & radioactivity etc.

Role and Responsibilities

Prospectively evaluation and Prepare concepts/ plays/ leads/ prospects inventory

2D & 3D seismic interpretation incorporated with all wells data, Well seismic calibration
Evaluate post- drill well findings based on interpretation and integration of data

Observe the reaction of recording equipment to detect irregularities

Use computers for data management, quality control and communication between the office and field
locations

Carry out Vertical electrical sounding, Magnetic / EM profiling and Borehole logging
Interpretation of the date, synthesis of results and preparation of reports

Maintenance and updating of Geophysical records

Proper transportation and maintenance of equipment’s

Must be acquainted with state and national policies.

 Technical Area Expert — Remote Sensing & GIS (RS):

Educational qualifications specific to functional area

Master’s (post-graduate) degree in Science/Technology or equivalent in Geology/ Applied Geology/
Geo-informatics from a UGC/AICTE recognized University/ Institution or equivalent”.

 Or
62

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

ii.

iii.

b.
i.
ii.
iii.
c.
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.
 Vv.
 A 2.3.4
a.
i.
ii.
b.
ii.
iii.
iv.
 v.
(om
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.
v.
vi.

 Vii.

viii.

BE / B Tech in GIS/ Remote Sensing / Spatial Sciences/ Geomatics / Geoinformatics and any other
relevant fields.

 Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
 Experience specific to functional area must include

Sound knowledge of GPS, GIS and Remote Sensing software’s like ArcGIS 10, QGIS, Erdas imaging,
Digital photogrammetry

Experience on ArcGIS extensions like Spatial Analyst, Data Management tool, Overlay Analysis.
Experience in GIS database management.

 Role and Responsibilities

GIS layer analysis, feature extraction using satellite data.

Coordinates and assigns GIS personnel to projects.

 Provides team lead oversight on projects including quality assurance, data analysis, map production and
report production

Selects from multiple procedures and methods to accomplish tasks.
 Excavation measurement to slope stability.

 Technical Area Expert - Surveying (SUR):

Educational qualifications specific to functional area

Full time Degree/Diploma in Surveying from a Govt. recognized institute and possessing valid Mines
Surveyor’s certificate of Competency from DGMS and having one-year post qualification experience in
relevant field

Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
 Experience specific to functional area must include

Having post qualification experience in Topographical Survey, Borehole survey and relevant
experience.

Familiarity with Prospecting geology concepts and survey processes

Verify the accuracy of survey data including measurements and calculations conducted at survey
sites.

 Calculate heights, depths, relative positions, and other characteristics of terrain.
 Experience in Coal/ Metal mining.
 Role and Responsibilities

Search legal records, survey records, and land titles to obtain information about boundaries in areas
to be surveyed.

 Prepare and maintain sketches, maps, reports, and legal descriptions of surveys to describe, certify,
and assume liability for work performed

Prepare or supervise preparation of all data, charts, plots, maps, records, and documents related to
surveys.

 Determine longitudes and latitudes of important features and boundaries in survey areas using
theodolites, transits, levels, and satellite-based global positioning systems (GPS).

 Coordinate findings with the work of engineering and architectural personnel, clients, and others
concerned with projects.

 Plan and conduct ground surveys designed to establish baselines, elevations, and other geodetic
measurements.

 Conducting Topographic survey, leveling etc.

Locate and mark sites selected for geophysical prospecting activities such as efforts to locate
petroleum or other mineral products.
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

A 2.3.

 a.

ii.

iii.

 A 3.0

5 Technical Area Expert - Hydrogeology (HG):
Educational qualifications specific to functional area

Master’s (post-graduate) degree in Hydrogeology/Hydrology/Water Resources Management from a
UGC/AICTE recognized University/ Institution or equivalent.

 Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
 Experience specific to functional area must include

Analysis of surface hydrogeological data pertaining to ground water, flow fluctuation, estimation of
flows; setting up and interpretation of gauging station readings, designing of ground water table
measurement and monitoring network, computation of ground water recharge, flow rate and direction.

 Plotting of ground water contours.

 Analysis and description of aquifer characteristics e.g. Permeability, transmissivity, storage coefficient
etc., estimation of groundwater potential and recharge phenomenon, determination of impact of
withdrawal of groundwater.

 Geology and Geo morphological analysis/description/ Stratigraphy/Lithology.

 Developing Geo-hydrological maps.

 Must be acquainted with state and national policies.

 Understanding of policies, guidelines and the legislation related to ground water

Role and Responsibilities

Collecting basic mine production data, such as annual output, drainage quantity, water inflow,

The water inflow (including static-storage and recharge rate) of mine was predicted and calculated by
horizontal catchment channel method, big well method and replenishment quantity method,
respectively.

 Hydrogeological condition changes of open-pit coal mine in grass area during production process

Team Member (TM)

 A provision of ‘Team Member’ has been included in the Scheme to provide opportunity to

d.
A3.1

experienced professionals in their own fields but lacking experience to enter the profession
Existing experts to expand the field of association

Persons who have obtained eligibility qualification but do not meet the experience requirements of TAE
or EC

This provision is available only for in-house experts

Expected functions of team member

The team member (TM) is expected to be involved both in field work as well as in the discussions amongst the PC
and the TAEs. Since s/he is expected to be knowledgeable in area of expertise, emphasis should be given to
acquaint her/him on aspects, developing the management plans and finally in report writing for her/his part of
association in the study.

 A 3.2Requirements of Experts/ Number of experts Required:

1.
2.
3.

1.2.2

Project Coordinators must be in-house (full time employee).
 Experts involved in preparing Geological reports must be in-house (full time employee).

 Any organization to be accredited must have one approved in-house PROJECT COORDINATOR (GL), one
in-house TAE (GL).

 The other TAE may be in-house or empanelled. The organisation must cover remaining TAs as per the
project requirement.

 Scheme for Accreditation of Mining PLAN Preparing Agency (MPPA)

 The Mining Plan Preparing Agency (MPPA) shall prepare Mining Plan in accordance with the standard and
procedures approved by Central Government. An applicant / consultant organisation must have expertise in
all the relevant fields or can have MoU with agencies having particular expertise if they are short of any
specific area for preparation of comprehensive Mining Plan. The Accredited Mining Plan Preparing Agency
64 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

(AMPPA) can provide consultancy for services required for Mining Plan and Pre-feasibility/ Feasibility
report preparation. AMPPA should cover following aspects —

a. Mining Plan for underground and open cast mines
b. _ Pre-Feasibility/ Feasibility studies of open cast and underground mines
c. Detailed design of underground and open cast mines
d. Operational plans for open cast mines
e. | Techno-economic appraisal of mining projects
f. Technical audit of working mines
g. Introduction and adaptation of new technology for underground and open cast mines
h. Preparation of manuals and special reports
1.2.2.1 QUALIFICATION, EXPERIENCE & FUNCTION OF EXPERTS (Mining)

Experts involved in the Mining Plan preparation comprise Project Coordinator (Mining) and Technical Area
Experts (TAE). They may be helped by team members. The qualification and experience requirements of the
experts and roles envisaged for them are detailed below-

Bl. Project coordinator (Mining Plan)
B1.1 Minimum educational qualifications

a. A BE/ B. Tech/ M. Tech Degree in Mining Engineering/ Opencast Mining/ Mining Machinery or
equivalent granted by a university established or incorporated by or under a Central Act, A Provincial
Act or a State Act including any institutions recognized by the University Grants Commission under
Section 4 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 (3 of 1956) or any equivalent qualification
granted by any university or institute outside India and recognized by Government of India.

b. Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above
B1.2 Experience of Project Coordinator

a. Professional experience 15 years overall work experience after the completion of above-mentioned
qualifying degrees. Modification to a mining plan shall be carried out by a person qualified to prepare a
mining plan.

 b. Officers retired/served for minimum 15 years in Central/ State Government/ Research Institutes/
universities/ Colleges will be considered to fulfil the minimum experience.

 c. Proficient in MS office, CAD, ArcGIS, Modelling Software, Data Processing Tools, Geological
Modelling Tools.

 B1.3 Mining Plan Preparation Specific experience:

Project Coordinator (PC) must have Mining Plan Preparation Specific experience as follows:
 a. Prepared at least 3 Mining Plans.
 b. Monitoring of 3 Mining Plan (Pre-feasibility/ Feasibility report, auditing, performance evaluation etc.),
c. A total of three in combination of (a) and (b).

 B1.4 Expected functions of Project coordinators (Mining Plan):

The Project Co-ordinator (Mining plan) shall prepare Mining Plan in accordance with guidelines issued by Central
government as per the approved standards and procedures and shall be responsible for correctness of the data
furnished. Mining engineers design the future mine layouts capable of achieving production and mine
development objectives, taking into account the geological characteristics and structure of the mineral resource.
 They prepare production and development schedules and monitor progress against these. The Project coordinator
should be thoroughly aware of Minin g Plan requirements and be familiar with the guidelines of report preparation,
MMDR Act, rules and all relevant regulations and its Amendments. S/he must have a clear concept and thorough
knowledge of Mining Plan requirements. S/he should share this information with other team members.

 Understanding of preparing mining plan including the following activities-

i. Detailed topography, mine geology, mineral deposit & existence, details of Prospecting, indicating
geological and recoverable reserve, sections calculations, slice plan/level plan method, its layout phases,
mechanization, operations, mine life, overburden, reservoir, mineral estimation etc and other.
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

ii. Blasting parameters, types of explosive, powder factor, storage of explosive.
 iii. Mine drainage, stacking of mineral rejections, use of mineral & its processing and waste disposal,
iv. Environmental management plan describing the impact of mining and beneficiation on environment on

the following over the next five years giving brief information about water regime, biodiversity, quality
of air, noise level, climatic conditions, socio-economic, regional aspects and others along with time
bound action.

 v. Year wise proposal of reclamation of land.
 vi. Monitoring schedules for different environmental components after the commencement of mining and
other related activities.
 Vii. Mine closure plan and Rehabilitation & Resettlement plan.
 Viii. Leadership quality in planning, selecting and guiding the team.
 ix. Activities related to Safety Planning and accident analysis.

 The Mining expert is the key person for preparing Mining reports and plans.
 B2.0 Technical area experts for Mining Plan and Design
B2.1 Technical Area Experts (TAEs)

Mining Plan and Design is also multi-disciplinary activity where the central figure is the Mining Expert (ME) who
should have broad knowledge and practical experience of preparing Mining Plan. S/he should have-

a) Clarity in the concept of the mining, knowledge of the applicable standards, Acts, Rules and regulations.
 b) Domain knowledge and understanding of the organization, industry.

 The following areas of expertise have been identified which are required for carrying out these studies-

i. Mining Engineering ME
il. Mining Geology MGEO
iil. Remote Sensing & GIS RS
iv. Civil, Electrical & Mechanical CEM
v. Marketing & Finance M&F
vi. Socio Economics SE
Vii. Environment, Health & Safety EHS
Viii. Geotechnical (optional) GT

B2.2 Minimum Educational Qualification for TAEs

a. A BE/ B. Tech/ M. Tech Degree in Mining Engineering/ Opencast Mining/ Mining Machinery or
equivalent granted by a university established or incorporated by or under a Central Act, A Provincial Act
or a State Act including any institutions recognized by the University Grants Commission under Section 4
of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 (3 of 1956) or any equivalent qualification granted by
any university or institute outside India and recognized by Government of India.

 b. Professional experience of three (3) years of working in a supervisory capacity in the field of mining after
obtaining the degree.

 c. Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
 B2.3. Minimum Experience for TAEs

a. An expert should have a minimum 5 years overall experience in the concerned technical area(s)
knowledge in preparing Mining Plan.

 b. Officers retired/served for minimum 5 years in Central/ State Mining Departments/Organization/
Research Institutes/ universities/ Colleges will be considered if work in the respective areas.

 c. Proficient in MS office, CAD, ArcGIS, Modelling Software, Data Processing Tools, Geological
Modelling Tools.

B2.4 —_ Specific Educational Qualification and Experience For Each TAE
66

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

B2.41

a.

ii.

B 2.4.2

Technical Area Expert — Mining Engineer (ME):
Educational qualifications specific to functional area

 A BE/ B. Tech/ B. Sc Engg. / AMIE / M. Tech Degree in Mining Engineering/ Opencast Mining/
Mining Machinery or equivalent granted by a university established or incorporated by or under a
Central Act, A Provincial Act or a State Act including any institutions recognized by the University
Grants Commission under Section 4 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 (3 of 1956) or any
equivalent qualification granted by any university or institute outside India and recognized by
Government of India

Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
 Experience specific to functional area must include
Mining Plan/ Pre- Feasibility/ Feasibility Project Report preparation
Design of Mining Methods for OC/UG Coal/ Metal/ Non-Metal Mines
Knowledge in broad range current and new UG/OC mining operations
Emerging mining technologies and concepts
Techno- Economic Feasibility for Coal, Metal and Non- Metal Minerals.
 Selection of Mining Equipment’s and Machineries.
 Practical experience in risk management in Mine Design.
 Design and scheduling best practice tools and methodologies.
 Knowledge of Geology, GIS, Drill & Blast, mining principals and other related mining support services
Role and Responsibilities

Prepare surface and underground plans and blueprints of a mining plans, use of survey data and risk
assessment of mine.

 Prepare Mining Plan/ Pre- Feasibility/ Feasibility Project that describe results and processes of mining,
Reconciliation of Prospecting data from economical mine plan, production plans reports.

 Use of mine planning software - Use specialized software to plan, design and model for mining
operations

Planning equipment for mineral treatment; communicate and collaborate with engineering experts
Generate weekly, monthly, quarterly or annual production plan.

 Technical Area Expert — Mining Geologist (MGEO):

Educational qualifications specific to functional area

Master’s (post-graduate) degree/ M. Tech in either subject- Geology/ Applied Geology from a
UGC/AICTE recognized University/ Institution or equivalent.

 Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
 Experience specific to functional area must include

Preparation of ore body modelling using Geological Prospecting data, its interpretation, mapping using
SW like Minex, Datamine, Geosoft, Minesoft, Surpac, AutoCAD, etc

Ability to interpret 2D/3D seismic data and create geologic maps and models

Knowledge and experience of the technologies currently implemented for mining plan, GIS, Drilling,
mining principals

Role and Responsibilities

Performs scouting of Prospecting activities in the region, preparation of Prospecting activity plans and
budget

Execution of drilling operations at prospective locations, Collection, evaluation and reporting on field
samples and prepare activity logs.

 Create accurate geology-based maps, lithologs, cross sections and geological models.
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA 67

B 2.4.3

ii.

iii.

iv.

vi.

Directed, supervised and managed all work performed by field crews and drillers.
 Entered and maintained sample information and Prospecting data in relevant database.
Interpreted and complied with all applicable governmental regulations and laws.
 Evaluation of geological & mineable resources from national & international prospects;

Research on the feasibility of developing these mineral prospects by analysing, reviewing, and
forecasting data for operational and business planning and preparation of the feasibility study report.

 Study of available GSI, MECL and other Prospecting reports, compilation and correlation for assessing
the likely potentiality of the mineral prospect.

 Technical Area Expert — Remote Sensing & GIS (RS):
Educational qualifications specific to functional area

Master’s (post-graduate) degree in Science/Technology or equivalent in either subject- Geology/ Applied
Geology/ Geo-informatics from a UGC/AICTE recognized University/ Institution or equivalent.

 Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.

 Experience specific to functional area must include

Sound knowledge of GIS and Remote Sensing software’s like ArcGIS, QGIS, Erdas etc.
Experience on ArcGIS extensions like Spatial Analyst, Data Management tool, Overlay Analysis.
Experience in GIS database management.

 Role and Responsibilities

Remote Sensing, GIS, GPS,

Digital photogrammetry,

Excavation measurement to slope stability.

 Technical Area Expert - Surveying (SUR):

Educational qualifications specific to functional area

Full time Degree/Diploma in Mining & Mines’ Surveying from a Govt. recognized institute and
possessing valid Mines Surveyor’s certificate of Competency from DGMS and having one-year post
qualification experience in relevant field

Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.

 Experience specific to functional area must include

Having post qualification experience in Topographical Survey, Borehole survey and relevant experience.
 Familiarity with Prospecting geology concepts and survey processes

Verify the accuracy of survey data including measurements and calculations conducted at survey sites.
 Calculate heights, depths, relative positions, and other characteristics of terrain.

 Experience in Coal/Metal mining.

 Role and Responsibilities

Search legal records, survey records, and land titles to obtain information about boundaries in areas to be
surveyed.

 Prepare and maintain sketches, maps, reports, and legal descriptions of surveys to describe, certify, and
assume liability for work performed

Prepare or supervise preparation of all data, charts, plots, maps, records, and documents related to
surveys.

 Determine longitudes and latitudes of important features and boundaries in survey areas using
theodolites, transits, levels, and satellite-based global positioning systems (GPS).

 Coordinate findings with the work of engineering and architectural personnel, clients, and others
concerned with projects.

 Plan and conduct ground surveys designed to establish baselines, elevations, and other geodetic
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

iii.

iv.

measurements.
 Conducting Topographic survey, levelling etc,

Locate and mark sites selected for geophysical prospecting activities such as efforts to locate petroleum
or other mineral products.

 Technical Area Expert — Civil, Electrical & Mechanical (CEM):
Educational qualifications specific to functional area

BE/B. Tech/B.Sc. Engg. /AMIE/M Tech in Mechanical/Electrical/Civil Engineering from recognized
University or Institute approved by AICTE

Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
 Experience specific to functional area must include

Design of various structures for both open-pit and underground mines

Plan and design hydraulic systems and transportation structures and systems
Manage the construction, operation and maintenance of the work

Test soils and various other material to determine the requirement needed for the building of foundations
and structures

Assist in the design and drawing of complex electrical systems

Work extensively with electrical equipment such as circuits and transformers
Experience in planning and optimising of Plant and Machinery for mining plan
Role and Responsibilities

Design and Layout of Civil Infrastructure Design (Township, Water Works Distribution, Domestic
Effluent Plant)

Coal Preparation and coal Handling Units (CHP) Design

Heavy Earth Moving Machinery Equipments (HEMM) Workshop Design.

 Mine Shafts Units, Mine Ventilation by Simulation Modelling

Washery Design and Implementation of Modern Washability Methods

In-Pit Crushing and Conveying System (IPCCC) and ROPECON Technology Application
High Angle Belt Conveying System in both O/C & U/G Mines

Energy Efficiency Study (Electrical & Diesel Equipments) of Mines and International Bench Marking
of the Mining Activities

Consultancy on “Energy Sensitive Organizational Structure"
All mine specific software development and IT enabled services
GPS enabled monitoring mechanism
Technical Area Expert — Marketing & Finance (M&F):
Educational qualifications specific to functional area
CA/ ICWA or B. Tech with MBA.
 Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
 Experience specific to functional area must include
Experience in establishing commercial viability of the project, Budgeting and financing;

Identifies the existence of markets or long-term, contracts for the product; and decides whether or not
the mine should be developed

Stripping costs where removal of overburden occurs for production, calculation of stripping
adjustments

Determination of impairment charges
 [aT [avs 3(i)] AT PT UTI : AAT ATT 69

c Role and Responsibilities
i. Detailed Project Costing & Financial Structuring.

ii. Risk Analysis Study

iii. Macro and Micro Analysis of Project Viability
iv. Equipment’s Depreciation and amortization
v. Profitability Index Study.

 B 2.4.7 Technical Area Expert — Socio-Economics (SE):
a. Educational qualifications specific to functional area

i. Master’s (post graduate) degree in Social Welfare / Sociology/ Political Science/ Psychology/
Geography/ Anthropology/ Economics/Environmental Economics/Urban _ Planning/Regional
Planning/Environmental Planning, Developmental Sciences

or

Rural Development and Management — rural economics/ Economic Sociology/ Demographic Studies

or
ii. MBA (Rural Management)

or
iii. Any other social science related subject

or
iv. 2 years Post Graduate Diploma in Sociology from recognized Institution like Tata Institute of Social

Sciences, Xavier Institute of Social Sciences, Ranchi/Xavier Institute of Management,
Bhubaneswar/XLRI, Jamshedpur and other reputed institutes.

 v. Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
 b. Experience specific to functional area must include
i. Conducting baseline socio-economic surveys through interviews/ questionnaire/focused group
discussions/participatory rural appraisal (PRA)/rapid rural appraisal (RRA)
ii. Methodologies on extrapolation of census data to project an up-to-date status including selected ground
validation of the same
iii. Conduct social needs assessment studies
iv. Evaluation of socio-economic status of both tribal and non-tribal areas
v. Demonstrated capacity to interact and develop rapport at community level will be an added advantage
vi. Conduct Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R & R) studies for people displaced due to developmental

projects and development for R & R plan
Vii. Assessment of social changes arising out of development projects
The following are the additional expectation from the expert:
° Understanding of policies, guidelines and the legislation related to R & R issues
° Social Impact Assessment of development projects in Rural/ Urban areas
B 2.4.8 Technical Area Expert — Environment, Health & Safety (EHS):
a. Educational qualifications specific to functional area

i. B. Tech/B. E/ M. Tech in Environmental Engineering, Civil, Geotechnical engineering or
Engineering Geology or equivalent.

ii. Desirable — Diploma in (Industrial Safety) from premier institutions (like CLI, RLIs, NITIE,
NITs, P. G. Diploma recognized by State Board of Technical Education).

 b. Experience specific to functional area must include

i. Outstanding knowledge of EHS management systems and related software
70 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

ii. Familiarity with OHSAS standards and regulations
iii. Planning of Long-term Sustainability initiatives (Natural capital, Human capital)

iv. Specifications for Specific Dust emission, water consumption, energy consumption, Solid waste
utilization and Green belt development.

 v. Facilitate Engineering & Project department by implementing various environment improvement projects
vi. Should have experience as Safety Officer preferably in Mining Industry

c. Role and Responsibilities

i. Prepares and assist in compliance's, general risk assessments and other safety assessments to support
Health, Safety and Environmental management
ii. Responsible for Industrial Hygiene, Occupational Health, Waste Management and business process
enhancements
iii. Maintain EHS configurations and Maintain operational procedures around supported environments
iv. Write, implement, and manage HSE Programs, Policies and Procedures
v. Develop Safe Operating Procedure (SOP's) and Job Hazard Analysis

B 2.4.9 Technical Area Expert - Geotechnical (GT):
a. Educational qualifications specific to functional area

a. B. Tech/B. E/ M. Tech in Civil, Rock/ Soil Mechanics and Geotechnical engineering or Engineering
Geology or equivalent.

 b. Desirable — Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
 b. Experience specific to functional area must include
a. Rock strength tests like Triaxial test, compressive strength test, Unified compressive strength etc
b. — Rock-quality designation (RQD) measured as a percentage of the drill core in lengths of 10 cm or more
c. Investigation, analysis and modelling of geotechnical issues
d. Geotechnical characterization of borehole core and domain modelling
e. Impact testing, Scratch testing etc.
 f. Work closely with the Geology department to optimize safe, timely drill-hole results
c. Role and Responsibilities
a. Slope design for open pits
 b. Headings, roadways and drifts for underground operations
c. Panel and longwall design
d. —‘ Tailing dam design
e. Special constructions
f. Geological Structure using precision measuring and testing instruments
B3.0 Team Member (TM)
 A provision of ‘Team Member’ has been included in the Scheme to provide opportunity to
a. Experienced professionals in their own fields but lacking experience to enter the profession
b. Existing experts to expand the field of association

c. Persons who have completed 5 years after obtaining eligibility qualification but do not meet the
experience requirements of TAE or EC

d. This provision is available only for in-house experts
B3.1 Expected functions of team member

The team member (TM) is expected to be involved both in field work as well as in the discussions amongst the PC
and the TAEs. Since s/he is expected to be knowledgeable in area of expertise, emphasis should be given to
(art I—ave 3(i)] AT BT UTI : TATATLOT 71

acquaint her/him on aspects, developing the management plans and finally in report writing for her/his part of
association in the study.

 B4.0 Requirements of Experts/ Number of experts Required:

1. Project Coordinators must be in-house (full time employee).
 2. Experts involved in preparing Mine Planning reports must be in-house (full time employee).
 3. Any organization to be accredited must have one approved in-house Project Coordinator (Mining), one

in-house TAE (Mining).

 4. The other TAE may be in-house or empanelled. The organisation must cover remaining TAs as per the
project requirement.

 13 Coverage of the Scheme

This comprehensive document describes the scheme’s requirements of human resource, Quality Management
Systems and procedures to be followed, integrity of data, the assessment process, the accreditation criteria and
other relevant requirements of the Scheme.

 1.4 Updation of the Scheme

The accreditation Scheme is dynamic in nature. Modifications and updation will take place from time to
time with the consultation and approval of Ministry. It ought to be for continually improving the delivery
and effectiveness of the consultancy.

QCI/NABET reserves all rights to amend its procedures and fees etc., as it may deem fit. Applicants are requested
to refer to the updated scheme on the QCI/NABET website (http://nabet.qci.org.in/) before applying for their
accreditation/surveillance/re-accreditation/expansion or modification of scope.

 2.0 Requirements for Accreditation

The accreditation requirements have been developed with a view to have system-based approach. The
scheme specifies the following six essential requirements for accreditation:

i. Human resource
il. Field investigation and laboratory arrangement
iil. Suitable infrastructure, P & M, Software, office and Equipment

iv. Quality Management System (QMS)

v. Quality of reports

vi. Organizational commitment
vii. Compliance to conditions of accreditation/ improvements achieved
21 Human resource

Preparation of a Prospecting report and Mining Plan and mine design is essentially multi-disciplinary
activity where inputs are required from experts having knowledge of the prospecting, mining and
industry/sector for which reports are to be carried out.

 2.1.1 Project Coordinator (PC)

The Project coordinator should have broad knowledge about the project. The role of the PC includes, but not
be limited to, studying and understanding the project, setting-up the team, visiting the site with the team,
evolving work schedule and ensuring that data are appropriately utilized for generating the comprehensive
report, correct interpretation and correlation of the data, and maintenance of necessary records.

 The essential requisites for PC include the following —

° Conceptual understanding of project requirements, process and outcome.

 ° Knowledge of the applicable Acts, Rules and Regulations governing the project.
 ° Domain knowledge

° Leadership quality in planning, selecting and guiding the team

 Thus, for Project Coordinator emphasis is given on experience and maturity.
 72 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

For educational qualification, minimum experience and expected functions of Project Coordinators (PC) for
different schemes please refer to below mentioned respective appendices.

 1. Project Coordinator Prospecting
2. Project Coordinator Mining Plan
2.1.2 Technical Area Expert (TAE)

TAEs are expected to identify and assess in their respective areas of expertise for adequate input for the report
input and provide their expert inputs to the PC. TAEs should have -

° an in-depth knowledge in their respective areas of specialization
° understanding of the legislations and rules/regulations with respect to the technical areas
° the capability of identifying the need of the project,

For educational qualification, minimum experience and expected functions of Project Coordinators (PC) for
different schemes please refer to below mentioned respective appendices.

 1. Technical Area Expert Prospecting

2. Technical Area Expert Mining Plan
2.1.3. Team members (TM)
A provision of ‘Team Member’ has been introduced to:

° Encourage induction of new professionals experienced in their respective technical areas but lack direct
related experience.

 ° Give opportunity to professionals in the field to build their competencies for handling different technical
areas under the Scheme. This provision is available for in-house employees only.

 NABET must be informed about involving professional as team member prior to actually engaging her/him for
the job.

 2.1.4 General conditions for experts

a. Experts involved in preparing reports, namely PCs and TAEs, can be both, in-house (full time
employee) or empanelled as per requirement.

 b . In-house (IH) expert- is a full-time employee working on the pay rolls of the applicant organization
(AO)/accredited consultant organization (ACO) on regular basis (not on ‘time to time basis’ or on ‘as
an when required’ basis) and gets appropriately paid as per her/his qualification and experience. All
payments to an in-house expert are to be made through bank and are subject to TDS, as applicable.

 c. An expert working full time (as per the above definition) in an organization and not working in any
capacity, part time or full time, in any other organization, may opt for a designation as ‘Consultant’.
 Such a person may be considered as an ‘in-house expert’ after necessary due diligence by NABET
assessors during office assessment.

 d. Empanelled expert—an AO/ACO may also have ‘empanelled’ experts. An empanelled expert may be a
‘freelancer’ (not a full-time employee of any organization) or may be working with an NGO or
Research organization/Academic institute. In the latter case, a No objection certificate (NOC) is to be
obtained from the Registrar for a University, the Principal for a college and the head of organization for
an NGO or a Research organization, as the case may be. The AO/ACO must have an MOU/written
agreement with such experts. Details to be included in NOC and MOU/Agreement.

 e. A person working in an organization other than a NGO/Research/Academic Institute cannot opt as an
empanelled expert for an AO/ACO. A full time Director in a Private/Public Limited company or a
‘Partner’ in a partnership firm is considered as a full-time employee of the organization/firm and is not
eligible to opt as an empanelled expert under the Scheme. However, if a person is an Independent
Director in a company, s/he is eligible to be an empanelled expert with a maximum of five AO/ACO. In
such cases, relevant documentary evidence has to be furnished of his/her being an Independent Director
in the company.

 f. An expert employed with an NGO or a Research/Academic institute may seek empanelment with a
maximum 3 AO/ACO. (subject to condition 5.1.6 xi given below)
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

73

g. All empanelled candidates/experts are required to furnish a Declaration of Association signed by the
candidate/expert and countersigned by the authorized signatory of the AO/ACO. There should also be a
MOU or Agreement between the empanelled candidate/expert stating the tenure and scope of
association duly signed by both parties.

 h. Empanelled experts may contribute to the report as and when the work is assigned to them. However,
their expected functions are same as those for IH experts.

i. PCs, TAEs and TMs must maintain field log books of their visits to the site giving the observations,
work done etc., for the stated activity.

 j. Submission of any false or misleading information in any of the above aspects, shall lead to the
cancellation of approval of such experts and/or application/ accreditation of the organization.

 2.2 Field investigation and laboratory arrangement

Collection of quality primary data is of crucial importance for preparing Prospecting, Mining Plan and Pre-
Feasibility/ Feasibility reports. A good understanding of the project based on visit to the project site by approved
PCs and TAEs is of utmost importance for developing the scope of study and for data collection.

 The field investigation would include as per the Prospecting plan to cover following aspects:

i. Exploration coverage
ii. Borehole Density as per ISP norms
iii. Coring and Non-Coring Drilling data

iv. Geophysical logging

v. RQD and Physico-Mechanical test
vi. Survey Data
vii. Hydrogeological Data

2.2.1 | Laboratory arrangement for analysis and records of Results w.r.t. DATA

The AO/APA may have an in-house laboratory or agreement/MOU/Work Order with one or more external
laboratories for work related to collecting data. If it engages more than one laboratory to cover its requirements of
Prospecting report being carried out in different parts of the country, it should have a clear internal guideline of
assigning the work to a particular laboratory and maintaining the necessary record of the same.

 Laboratories engaged for the Coal core analysis should be carried out in Govt/NABL accredited recognized
laboratory. All analyses should be carried out as specified guidelines. The scope of accreditation/
recognition/certification should cover relevant parameters.

 In specific cases, in-house laboratories of a university/ research institute may also be considered, and assessed by
the Assessors to be appropriate for consideration under the Scheme.

 Wherever such data generation includes collection of samples at the site by the AO/APA followed by analysis of
the same at the laboratory, a detailed written down procedure should be available with the AO/APA in the QMS,
including methodologies for collection, preservation and transportation of such samples to the laboratory. The
procedure should specifically address as to who are to be involved in selecting sampling locations, parameters to
be analysed for, collection, preservation/transportation etc. of samples.

 2.3 Suitable infrastructure, P & M, Software, office and Equipments: May be referred at the website of
QCI-NABET

2.4 Quality management system (QMS) -

One of the long-term objectives of this Scheme is to encourage the consultant organizations to adopt system-
oriented approach for report preparation. Ideally, all Prospecting and Mining Plan Preparation Agency/
organizations should have their own report preparation manual as well which they may enrich from their
learnings’ over the years.

 To facilitate the above, the applicant organization must maintain a Quality Management Systems (QMS) for the
organizations. The QMS should be based on the current version of ISO 9001 standards. Although it is not
mandatory that the organization should be ISO 9001 certified, the QMS must address the requirements of ISO
9001 and the specific requirements of the Scheme.

 Prospecting Consultants are advised to establish and maintain a Quality Management System (QMS) for their
organization as the same offers the following benefits;
74 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

° Creates a culture of doing things right, the very first time.

 ° Inculcates the culture of “saying, what we do and doing, what we say”

° Increases system orientation and reduces person specific dependence.

 ° Encourages uniform knowledge sharing and develops skilled work force.
 ° Helps develop team spirit

° Reduces duplicate work and minimizes wastages.

 ° Improves quality of work and brand image.

 QMS should be based on ISO 9001 while addressing specific requirements of NABET Scheme. Please note that
if an organization is already ISO 9001 certified, guidelines B1 to B4 and B10 are normally addressed (which
may please be checked). It is then required to develop procedures for the NABET specific items i.e., B4 to B9
and integrate them with the system meaning that these should also come under the ambit of auditing, document
control, management review etc.

 If an organization has not been initiated into the system-oriented approach of working which is documented,
audited and reviewed, it needs to acquaint itself of ISO 9001 requirements. Such organizations may initially take
the help of a consultant but MUST NOT OUTSOURCE THE WORK OF ESTABLISHING THE QMS to him to
meet the requirements of the NABET Scheme. Such an approach will be counterproductive as the system so
developed is less likely to be owned by the working team and would remain a standalone document. THE BEST
WAY IS TO GET THE GUIDANCE OF A CONSULTANT BUT LET THE WORKING TEAM ESTABLISH
THE SYSTEM.

 A QMS is supported by a 3-tier documentation system

° The Quality Management System manual
° Procedures
° Work instructions/forms/formats/checklists to implement the procedures

Guidelines for developing the QMS —

Quality policy shall be defined to address at least following:

a. Be appropriate to the Organization’s purpose & context, and support its strategic direction
b. Includes commitment for, continual improvement and satisfy applicable requirements

c. Provide a framework for setting objectives and a review mechanism

d. Be communicated and understood within the Organization

e. Focus on customer satisfaction

Leadership and Planning Support & Operation- Shall give procedures for planning, operations & support
for defined QMS including role and accountability of Top management.

 a. Accountability for Effective design and implementation of QMS is defined

b. Use of process approach and risk-based thinking is evident

c. System for effective communication is defined and implemented

d. Risk Management process is established, that is linked to organizations context

e. Interested parties for organization’s QMS are identified and their inputs are captured to improve QMS
f. System for change management is defined and implemented

 g. Shall determine, provide and maintain the infrastructure necessary for its operation and processes.

 h. Shall plan implement and control the processes needed to meet the requirements as per defined QMS

Control of documented information shall give procedures for:
a. Uniquely identifying documents and records
b. Approving documents prior to issue

c. Distribution, access, retrieval and use
[art I—ave 3(i)] ATT BT UIST: AAT ATCT 75
d. Control of changes
e. Reviewing and updating of documents, as required
f. Retention and Disposition
g. Ensuring quick availability of relevant revision of the document
h. Storage, protection and retrieval of documented information and handling of outdated/superseded

documents

Performance Evaluation and Review shall give procedures for:

a.

b.

 Cc.

Fixing Key Performance Indicators (KPI) of experts involved and annual appraisal of the same
Assessing / ensuring the quality of Geological reports prepared

Periodic and systematic audit, both internal and external and follow up action for closure of Non-
conformances (NCs)/ observations.

 Management review giving periodicity and issues to be taken up including feedback from project
proponent on quality of Geological reports prepared and necessary follow up action.

 Actions taken to address Non- conformances-— shall give procedures for:

a.

e.

f.

Analysing the NCs of internal audits as well as external audits including NABET to identify the causes
and the actions to be taken,

Identifying resources and other inputs required for such actions,
Fixing the time frame and the responsibility for the actions,
Ensuring the completion of the actions to be taken,

Review the effectiveness of corrective actions taken

Review risks, opportunities and overall QMS if required

Competence management of staff, experts and other persons related to scope of QMS- shall give procedures

for:

g.

Define and provide the necessary persons needed for effective implementation of QMS

Define the necessary competence (Education, experience and skills) for staff, experts and other persons
whether in house or contractual, impacting the QMS of the organization,

Assessing the work done by the prospective experts prior to their retention

Framing the “terms of reference” for retention of the expert, including preparation of the report for
her/his portion of the work,

Assessing performance of the work done by the experts for the organization,

 Wherever applicable, take appropriate actions to acquire necessary competence and evaluate the
effectiveness of actions taken

Maintain appropriate doc umented information as evidence of competence.

 Collection and measurement of primary data

‘Primary’ data will cover all forms of data collected through the field work, for assessing the project area. The
procedures for collecting primary data should include:

a.

Site visits by the Prospecting team to familiarize about site conditions to plan for the Prospecting
Selecting the number and location of monitoring stations and the type of sampling and parameters to be
monitored

Interpretation of data including statistical analysis to arrive at meaningful information

Specifying as appropriate for the scope of Prospecting methodologies to be followed and interpretation
of the same.

Collation, synthesis and interpretation of secondary data —

Authenticity, credibility, appropriateness and relevance of the secondary data are the cornerstones of a good
Geological report. Secondary data shall be used to supplement the primary data and under no circumstances this
shall be used as a replacement of primary data. This procedure should include information on:
76 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

a. | When secondary data would be resorted to
b. — Relevant secondary data to be collected as appropriate for Prospecting study requirements
c. Sources of secondary data ensuring their reliability and age
d. Validation of important secondary data by cross verification at the site or from other sources
e. — Ensuring the brevity of the data (eliminating irrelevant information)
 It is a good practice to give reference to the source when secondary data is used.

 Control of externally provided process, products and services

Organization shall give procedure to apply necessary controls for the externally provided processes, products and
services.

 The manual should mention procedures for:

a. Defining the conditions when outsourcing would be resorted to

b. Assessing the capability of the agency to take up the work to be outsourced

c. Drawing up the terms of reference for the outsourced work

d. Identifying steps to be taken to ensure the quality of the outsourced work

e. Timely review, monitor and control on outsourced services as per defined QMS
Laboratory work for Prospecting data — should give procedures for:

a. Assessing a laboratory for its capability to analyze the parameters required for collection of surface and
sub surface Prospecting data and studies

b. Identifying the scope of work to be assigned to the lab and those to be done by the Prospecting
Consultant Organization

Collection, preservation and transportation of samples from site to the laboratory

d. Quality assurance by the team of the primary data collection work including supervision at site

e. Type of records to be maintained by the laboratory and the team on the baseline data collection work
Customer satisfaction & Complaints—shall give procedures for

a. Monitor customers perceptions of the degree to which their needs and expectations are fulfilled.

 b. Informing the clients about the provision of complaints

c. Accepting complaints

d. Handling and disposal (including authority and responsibility) of the same within reasonable time

e. Maintaining records of complaints

f. Ensuring implementation of correction and corrective actions
2.5 Quality of Prospecting (GR), Mining Plan and Pre-feasibility/ Feasibility reports

One of the important objectives of the Scheme is to establish the quality of report prepared by Consultant
Organizations, give feedback to them on areas of improvement so that there is consistent report quality. The
assessment criteria include accuracy of site description, quality of data, analysis and interpretation of the data.

 2.6 Organizational commitment

The objective of the Scheme is to identify credible Prospecting and Mining Plan Preparation Agencies
organizations who should prepare best quality Prospecting (GR), Mining plan and Pre-feasibility/ Feasibility
report in the country. This will be possible when there is a commitment from the accredited agencies towards
comprehensive report. This has been factored in the Scheme and for Re-accreditation assessment compliance to
the accreditation condition by the accredited agency/ organization since receiving accreditation is also taken into
account (see Section 6 below).

 3.0 ACCREDITATION CYCLE

Accreditation Cycle in this Scheme is for 3 years and comprises 3 types of assessments:
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

77

Initial accreditation (IA): In the IA, the potential of the applicant organization is assessed and based on that
accreditation is granted. On successful completion of the initial assessment, an applicant organization is given
accreditation for 3 years, subject to a surveillance assessment after 18 months.

 Surveillance assessment (SA): This is to assess performance after IA. The basic objective is to judge to what
extent the performance along with compliance to the conditions of accreditation has been met. SA falls due 18
months after IA.

 Re-accreditation (RA): Following the principle of ‘consistency’, in RA the emphasis is laid on the consistent
quality achieved by the ACO during the period of accreditation. Since, the ultimate objective of the Scheme is to
improve the quality of Mining plan/ Geological Reports being prepared in our country, weightage accorded to it
gradually increases from IA to SA to RA.

 On completion of three years from initial accreditation, the organization is re-assessed broadly as per the process
followed for Initial Assessment with emphasis on improvements achieved.

 4.0 ACCREDITATION PROCESS

 The accreditation procedure for IA, SA and RA includes three processes:
A. Application assessment process
B. Office assessment process
C. Decision making process

4.1 Application assessment process

There are separate application forms for IA, SA, RA, expansion of scope and supplementary assessment for
replacing approved experts who may have left the organization. These can be downloaded from the NABET
website www.http://nabet.qci.org.in/ .

 Applicants are advised to go through the accreditation scheme carefully prior to preparing/submitting their
application. They must complete the Self-assessment to know if the applications are ready for submission and
whether they are ready for NABET assessment. This would greatly reduce processing time benefiting both, the
Applicant organization (AO) /Accredited Consultant Organization (ACO) and NABET. Applications are to be
submitted in soft format only. In case, NABET requires hard copy of a document, the same is intimated to the
AO/ACO.

 Application for SA must be submitted three months prior to the when SA is due i.e. on completion of 16 months
after date of office assessment for IA. Similarly, RA application should be submitted three months prior to
expiry of accreditation period i.e., on completion of 34 months after date of office assessment for IA.

 NABET application process is on-line and procedure to be adopted for applying on-line will be posted on the
QCI/NABET website.

 Assessment of the applications is carried out in 3 stages -

Stage I- Checking completeness of the application by NABET secretariat

Applications submitted by an AO/ACO must be complete in all respects and is inclusive of all supporting
documents mentioned in the checklist of Application Form (for LA, SA, RA) of this Scheme.

 NABET secretariat checks if the

(a) Application is complete in all respects,
(b) Information submitted is in relevant formats and
(c) Application is accompanied by the requisite fee.

 In case an application is grossly incomplete in respect of candidates/experts, laboratory arrangement etc.,
NABET secretariat informs the AO/ACO of the inadequacies. Such applications are processed further once the
inadequacies are addressed. For other applications, the NABET secretariat forwards the application to the
principal assessor (see below) with its observations for technical scrutiny. The AO/ACO is advised to carefully
study the requirements before filling in the application.

 Stage II - Technical review of documents

Assessors with vast experience in the relevant fields conduct technical review of documents of the applications
submitted to NABET. For each application two assessors are assigned. The Principal Assessor (PA) carries out
the Stage II assessment supported by the NABET staff. The PA is joined by a Co-Assessor (CA) for the office
assessment (see below). In case the number of experts involved is large, NABET may assign more CAs to
78 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

expedite the process. After Stage II assessment the PA may raise Non-Conformances (NCs) and/or Observations
(Obs.) pointing out the areas where the application does not meet the requirements of the Scheme. After the NCs
and Obs. are successfully closed by the AO/ACO, further processing of the application i.e. the office assessment
is taken up.

 Stage III - Office assessment

It involves assessment of an application in the following six aspects:

a Quality and performance of personnel

b. Infrastructure, P & M, adequate Software (SW) and Hardware (HW)

c. Field investigations and laboratory systems to ensure data integrity

d. Quality Management System

e. Quality of Prospecting Work, Mining Plan and Pre-feasibility/ Feasibility report data
f. Organizational evaluation/commitment

g- Compliance to condition of accreditation/ improvements achieved(for SA and RA)

The assessment process is primarily evidence based and objective in nature. After obtaining accreditation, an ACO
is expected to strictly abide by the conditions of accreditation. Efforts towards capacity building and commitment
to quality work are given due weightage.

 Normally, 10 days prior notice is given to the AO/ACO for office assessment. However, NABET reserves the
right to visit the office/site un-announced, if it is deemed necessary.

 4.2 Decision making process

On completion of office assessment process, a joint report is prepared by the PA and CA (or CAs) and sent to
the NABET secretariat for further processing. The PA is responsible for the final report. NABET secretariat
after checking the completeness of the report, obtains clarifications/additional information, if required, from the
AO/ACO/Assessors. The case is then put before the accreditation committee by the NABET secretariat for its
consideration, review and decision on accreditation. The final outcome is thereafter uploaded on QCI/NABET
website http://nabet.qci.org.in/ accreditation becomes effective from the last date of the office assessment.

 4.3 Time frame for application and accreditation processes
Completion of application, assessment and accreditation processes depends on the following:

a. Receipt of complete information at NABET for Stage I and II assessments along with necessary
documents and closure action of NCs/Obs., as applicable, for IA, SA and RA applications.

b. Timely submissions of such information by AO/ACO within the time frame stipulated by NABET vide
section 10 for SA and RA. For initial accreditation AOs are requested to submit the required details as
early as possible.

 c. Timely raising of queries by NABET within 15 days for Stage I and 1 month for Stage II.

 Subject to the above, all efforts are made by NABET to complete the process of granting accreditation within
3 months of submission of complete information by AO/ACO.

 4.4 Accreditation process outcome
The salient outcomes from accreditation process are as follows:

a. Accredited — in case the applicant clears th e assessment and accreditation processes successfully, the
result is posted on the QCI/NABET website and the AO/ACO is also informed separately.

b. Not approved — if the AO/ACO fails to obtain 40% marks in the office assessment or does not fulfil
any other requirements of the Scheme, the application is not approved and accreditation is not granted.

ec. Cancellation - in case an ACO does not fulfil conditions of accreditation or does not submit complete
application for SA or RA in time, a reminder is given to do the same in the next 15 days. If complete
application is not submitted even after 15 days, a final notice is served for responding giving another 15
days’ time.

 In the event of non-compliance after the final notice as well, the accreditation granted to the ACO is cancelled
and its’ name is removed from the list of accredited consultants. In case it wishes to get considered again
under the Scheme, it is required to submit a fresh application with requisite fee. Fresh assessment is then
carried out as per [A norms
[art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA

d. Incomplete applications — If an AO submits an incomplete application in which requisite details are
not provided or it does not meet the requirements of the Scheme in respect of eligible candidates for
Project Coordinator (PC) and Technical Area Expert (TAE), QMS, Laboratory details etc., the same is
put in the ‘incomplete applications’ list. NABET intimates the AO of the deficiencies in the application.
 If it is an application for IA, the same is processed further once all requirements are fulfilled.

 45 Category of accredited consultants

Prospecting and Mining Plan Preparation Agency/ organizations are granted accreditation in categories ‘A’ or ‘B.
Experts are also approved in categories A or B under this Scheme.

 If an approved category-A expert scores less than 50% marks in SA, s/he is issued an alert and her/his approval
status may be changed to Category-B. A category-B expert is upgraded to category-A if -

a. S/he meets the experience requirements stated in the Scheme/has addressed the shortfalls of earlier
assessment in the re-application

b. — Scores 60% or more in SA/RA/Supplementary Assessment and

c. | Recommended for up-gradation by the assessors on fulfilment of point a, b above and final decision of
Accreditation Committee.

 5.0 GRANT OF ACCREDITATION

Results of the accreditation committee meeting are uploaded on the QCI/NABET website within a month of the
AC meeting in which the relevant case is discussed. A formal letter from NABET is sent within one month from
the date of approval by the accreditation committee mentioning the approved sectors with category, experts
approved with category, detailed conditions of accreditation and NCs & Obs. , if any. NABET’s certificate of
accreditation is issued on successful closure of all NCs and Obs.

 5.1 Maintaining Accreditation

Accreditation of Prospecting and Mining Plan Preparation Agency is subject to compliance to the requirements of
the QCI — NABET Scheme. These include, but are not limited to:

a. Implementation of systems/procedures documented in the QMS manual of the ACO including the
corrective and preventive actions for the NCs and Obs. of IA, SA, RA, as applicable.

b. ACOs are encouraged to prepare their own ‘Report preparation manual’ detailing the procedures
followed right from the time of placing quotes for the work to completion of the project.

 c. Timely replacement of experts - in case any approved PC or TAE leaves the ACO, s/he needs to be
replaced with in a specific time.

 d. —_Intimation of changes — in case of any change in the organization related to systems, procedures,
laboratory and other facilities, the same is to be intimated to NABET in the within one month.

 e. | Payment of fees, as applicable, to NABET as per the terms of accreditation.

 f. At the beginning of the reports prepared by the ACO a declaration is to be given by the ACO
mentioning the names of the PC and TAEs involved. This form must be duly signed by them and
countersigned by the CEO of the organization.

 g. Familiarity with the site conditions is a fundamental requirement, concerned PC and relevant TAEs are
expected to visit the site for appropriate duration prior to commencing the work as well as during the
period of primary data collection and for ground validation of secondary data.

 h. All PCs and TAEs and team members involved in the project should maintain a field logbook with
noting done at the site. NABET’s assessors may verify these during the office assessment. It is
worthwhile to maintain other documentations on the expert’s site visits viz., expert’s report, and
authorization of tours, travel documents etc.

 i. The ACO is to strictly avoid practices/actions mentioned in Section 5.3 to ensure that accreditation
granted to it is not cancelled.
 j. The ACO is to maintain the following records (in soft or hard format)
 i. A register of attendance of employees involved in project.
ii. Names of the experts (both in-house and empanelled) involved in projects handled by the consultant

organization.
 80 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

iii. Details of involvement of empanelled experts, in terms of time devoted to various projects.
 iv. Updated declaration of empanelled experts indicating the number of organizations they are
associated with.
 v. All documents related to laboratory work and implementation of QMS
5.2 Changes after accreditation

Since accreditation of a consultant organization is based on the experts approved, an ACO must inform NABET if
an approved expert leaves the organization and propose a replacement in accordance of the Scheme’s
requirements within one month. NABET would arrange assessment of such candidate/s either during the next
assessment due or earlier. Failing to propose a replacement on time is a non-conformance, viewed seriously and
may also result in cancellation of accreditation.

 A new candidate may be proposed as a PC or a TAE for assessment at any time. However, for a person already
assessed and not approved may be proposed only after a gap of 3 months enabling her/him to address the shortfall.

 5.3 Suspension/cancellation/debarment of accreditation

NABET may suspend or cancel an accreditation or even debar an organization on account of any or more grounds
during accreditation process or after, but not limited, to the following:

a. Non-compliance or violation of the NABET’s requirements and conditions of accreditation and deviation
from facts as stated in application and enclosures

b. In case an approved expert leaves the organization, the ACO is required to inform NABET of the same
within one month and get a replacement approved within the next two months.

 c. Submission of false or misleading information in the application or in subsequent submissions

d. Improper use of NABET’s accreditation mark, letter of accreditation from NABET or the QCI/NABET
logo

e. Carrying out changes in Project coordinators/experts without NABET’s approval
f. Failure to report any major legal (mandatory compliance) changes and evident conflict of interest

g. Using fraudulent practices by the ACO in respect of its submission/interaction with NABET which
include, but not limited to, deliberate concealment and/or submission of false or misleading information,
suppression of information, falsification of records or data, unauthorized use of accreditation.

 h. Violation of the Code of Conduct for the consultant organizations.

 i. Any other condition deemed appropriate by NABET.

 The decision for the suspension/cancellation/debarment is taken by the NABET accreditation committee.
 A clarification may be sought and put up to the accreditation committee for final decision on the matter.
 5.4 Actions for misconduct/fraudulent activities

Submission of false or misleading information or use of fraudulent practices, an AO/ACO may be disqualified for
up to one year, to be decided by the accreditation committee depending on the seriousness of the action. Such
AO/ACO will be able to re-apply only after expiry of the disqualification period. The application is to be
accompanied with an undertaking from the CEO of the organization that, if such practices are repeated, it will
render the organization ineligible to participate in the NABET accreditation scheme any further. The same
approach is applicable for individual experts (PCs and TAEs) as well.

 5.5 Confidentiality

All information, documents and reports submitted by an AO/ACO to NABET are utilized by the NABET,
assessors, members of accreditation and technical committees for the purpose of assessment and accreditation.
 These may also be shared with MoC, Govt. of India and other members of the International Personnel
Certification Association. However, the identity of the accredited consultant organizations would be masked for
sensitive information related to business whenever it is called for/appropriate. In case an AO/ACO wants the
information to be kept confidential, a communication must be sent to NABET citing reasons for the same.
 NABET reserves the right to take appropriate decision in this regard. NABET also reserves the right of taking
appropriate action against an ACO for deliberate breach of confidentiality.

 The ACO is required to have adequate arrangements consistent with applicable laws to safeguard confidentiality
of all information provided by its clients. These arrangements are extended to include organizations or individuals
acting on its behalf and as its representatives.
 [art Have 3(i)] IS HT UTA: TATA 81

6.0 GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL MECHANISM

There are two methodologies available under the Scheme for addressing the grievances of AOs and ACOs—
a. Review of Decisions
b. — Appeal

6.1 Review of decisions

 In case an AO/ACO wishes for review/reconsideration of any decision taken by NABET, they may send a request
for same to NABET.

 The following procedure is applicable:
a. Request received from AO/ACO by NABET is recorded in the same serial as date of receipt

b. Request must mention specific complaints (not generic in nature) and supported by documentary
evidence.

 Anonymous/ pseudonymous requests are not be entertained.

 d. Only substantial errors/mistakes on procedural matters are taken up for consideration. Re-assessment of
any aspect of assessment or request for deviation from the Scheme cannot be considered.

 e. Such ‘Reviews’ are taken up for consideration in a meeting of the relevant Accreditation Committee as
early as possible.

 f. Agenda of such meetings is intimated to the AO/ACO.

 g- AOs/ACOs making the request may present their case in person to the AC, if they so desire.

 h. Decision of the AC is intimated to the concerned organizations as well as posted on QCI website.
 6.2 Appeal
An AO/ ACO may apply for Appeal in case it is not satisfied with the ‘Review’ decision.

 An ‘Appeal’ must include the specific issues on which the appellant is filing the appeal accompanied by
supporting documents, fees for appeal. The following information is to be provided while submitting the appeal -

Sp ecific Supporting Decision of | Additional/ new | New supporting
issue/s documents . iq . .
 SLNo. . . . . | Review issues submitted in | documents added
submitted in | submitted in .
 Committee Appeal now now

Review Review

1 7 7 7 7

The Following procedure is applicable:

i. Formation of 3-member Appeals Committee by NABET, chaired by a member of NABET Board and
comprising one more member from NABET Board and one subject specialist.

 ii. The Appeals Committee proposed is approved by the Chairman, NABET Board.

 iii. The documents received from the appellant are submitted to the members of the Appeals committee by
NABET Secretariat.

 iv. Process of hearing by the committee - the committee fixes a date for the hearing which is intimated to the
appellant by NABET secretariat. A reasonable notice period is given for the appellant to appear in the
hearing. The committee gives due opportunity to the appellant and the NABET secretariat to present their
cases. The committee gives its decision after hearing both the sides and based on deliberation within it.

 v. The decision of the Appeals committee is intimated to the appellant by NABET Secretariat.
 7.0 CODE OF CONDUCT

All ACOs are obliged to improve the standing of the consultancy profession by rigorously observing the Code of
Conduct. Failure to do so may result in the suspension or cancellation of accreditation.

 7A Use of QCI and NABET logo

a. The QCI and NABET accreditation logo is the property of NABET and its use is controlled. Compliance to the
guidelines and conditions is required for using NABET Accreditation Mark
82 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]

1. Whenever a Prospecting and Mining Plan Preparing Agency is accredited, NABET shall inform the
relevant entity about the conditions of the use of accreditation mark.

ii. Accreditation mark can be used by NABET accredited consultant organizations only.
 b. Guidelines and conditions of use of accreditation mark
i. Accreditation mark as appears on NABET Accreditation certificates can be printed as coloured image

or black and white

ii. Accreditation mark shall not be used to suggest any approval or sponsorship of NABET other than the
organization accredited.

 iii. Accreditation mark shall not be used in any way that misleads the reader about the accreditation status
of the consultant organization

iv. Accreditation mark is not transferable and is to be used only by the accredited consultant organization
as described in its application.

 v. Accredited consultant organization upon suspension or withdrawal or expiry of its accreditation
(however determined), shall discontinue the use of NABET accreditation mark on all media of
communications by the organization including promotional material, letter head, newsletters, brochures,
annual reports, business cards, websites and advertisements etc.

vi. NABET reserves the right to change the conditions as and when considered necessary and the same
shall be communicated to consultant organization.

 vii. Use of accreditation mark is applicable for consultant organizations only and not for individual expert/s.

c. Verification

a. | NABET may, at its discretion, carry out verification of proper use of the accreditation Mark.

b. If any misuse of the accreditation is noticed, NABET initiates actions as per procedure for suspension
and/or cancellation of its accreditation.

 7.2 Undertaking by consultant organization
The consultant organization undertakes to:
a. Act professionally, accurately and in an unbiased manner.
 b. Be truthful, accurate and fair to the assigned work, without any fear or favour.

 c.  Judiciously use the information provided by or acquired from the client in carrying out the project and
to maintain the confidentiality of information received or acquired in connection with the assignment.

 d. Use the expertise of only approved experts of relevant category in the preparation of Mining Plan/
Geological Reports.

 e. Avoid and/or declare any conflict of interest that may affect the work to be carried out.
 f. Not accept any favour from the clients, or their representatives.

 g. Not act in a manner detrimental to the reputation of any of the stakeholders including NABET and the
client.

 h. — Co-operate fully in any formal enquiry procedure of NABET.

 zy

Prior to accreditation, the AO signs the “Code of Conduct for Prospecting and Mining Plan Preparing Agency’
and sends it to the NABET secretariat.”

 [F. No. 34011/28/2019-CPAM]
BHABANI PRASAD PATI, Jt. Secy.

 Note:- The principal rules were published in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (i) vide number
G.S.R.1398, dated the 26th November, 1960 and lastly amended vide number G.S.R. 710(E), dated the 8th
October, 2014.

Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054. ALOK KUMAR Bitzsignstoy oxo,
fret &. At-uat- 33004/99 REGD. No. D. L.-33004/99

Che Gazette of India

aloft. -S1.Ue.-31.-26082020-221354
CG-DL-E-26082020-221354

HATATOT
EXTRAORDINARY
art l—eus 3—Jq-@ue (ii)
PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (ii)

siferare & sentient
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

a. 2543] are fave, Taare, aTeT 26, 2020/aTH 4, 1942
No. 2543] NEW DELHI, WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2020/BHADRA 4, 1942

MINISTRY OF COAL
CORRIGENDA
New Delhi, the 26th August, 2020

S.O. 2870(E).—In the notification of the Government of India, Ministry of Road Transport and
Highways number S.0.1766(E), dated the 5th June, 2020, published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary,
Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (ii), dated the Sth June, 2020, in the English version :-
(a) onpage 2,

(i) In line 1, for “Ministry of Road Transport and Highways”, read “Ministry of Coal”;

Gi) In line 6, for “powersof’, read “powers of”;

(iii) In line 7, for “Actin”, read “Act in”;

(iv) In line 8, for “‘alsobe’”, read “also be";

(v) Inline 8, for “thenominated”, read “the nominated”;

(b) on page 3, in line 5, for “Governmenton”, read “Government on”.
 [F. No. CBA-1/13011/1/2020-CBA1]

BHABANI PRASAD PATI, Jt. Secy.

3909 GI/2020

Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-1 10064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054. Vana "™"

F.No.12012/01/2015-CA-III
Government of India
Ministry of Coal

KKK
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi
Dated the 8th January, 2016

OFFICE MEMORANDUM

Subject: Methodology for fixing Upfront Payment and Reserve Price
for Allotment of Coal Mines/Blocks for sale of coal to PSUs
under the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015.

 The undersigned is directed to refer to Rule 8 (3) of the Coal Mines
(Special Provisions} Rules, 2014 and Section 8 (5) of the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions} Act, 2015 and to say that the Central Government has approved
the methodology for fixing Upfront Payment and Reserve Price for Allotment
of Coal Mines/Blocks for sale of coal to PSUs under the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions} Act, 2015 as mentioned below:-

“Upfront Payment for Allotment: The Intrinsic Value of the coal block will
be calculated by computing its Net Present Value (NPV), based on
Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) method. The 10 % of this intrinsic value will be
payable upfront in 3 installments of 5%, 2.5% and 2.5% as prescribed in the
allotment document. This is similar to the methodology used for calculation
of upfront payment for coal mines/blocks allotted to the Government
Companies for specified end-uses.

 Reserve Price for allotment: A reserve price equivalent to the amount of
the royalty on coal as per prevalent rate shall be payable on per tonne basis
to the relevant coal bearing State Government as per actual production of
coal by the successful allottee including the allottees in the State of West
Bengal where royalty is prescribed in Rs. per tonne. The amount will be
calculated as per the extant / prevailing rate of royalty ad-valorem on price
of coal as reflected in the invoice, excluding taxes, levies and other charges.
 The statutory royalty and other levies payable on coal will continue to be
governed as per extant rules.”

 Dad
(A‘K Das)

Under Secretary to the Government of India
Tel. No. 23073936

The Nominated Authority,
Ministry of Coal

Copy_te:
= (NIC) ~ with the request to upload on the website of Ministry of Coal
THE COAL MINES PROVIDENT FUND AND
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS ACT, 1948

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

SECTIONS.
 1. Short title and extent.
 2. Interpretation.
 3. Coal Mines Provident Fund Scheme.
 3A. Constitution of Board of Trustees.
 3B. Board of Trustee to be a body corporate.
 3C. Appointment of officers.
 3D. Transfer of accounts.
 3E. Coal Mines Pension Scheme.
 3F. Special grant by Central Government.
 3G. Coal Mines Deposit-linked Insurance Scheme.

 4. Fund to be recognised under Act 43 of 1961.
 5. Coal Mines Bonus Schemes.

 6. Retrospective operation of a scheme.

 7. Modification of a scheme.

 7A. Schemes to be laid before Parliament.

 7B. Determination of moneys due from employers.

 8. Protection against attachment.

 9. Penalty.

 10. Inspectors.

 10A. Mode of recovery of money due from an employer.

 10B. Determination of employer in certain cases.

 10C. Delegation of powers.

 10D. Payment of contribution by employers and recovery thereof from members.
 10E. Recovery of monies by employers and contractors.

 10F. Power to recover damages.

 11. Priority of payment of contributions and bonus over other debts.

 11A. Protection for acts done in good faith.
 11B. Power to remove difficulties.

 11C. Power to exempt.
SECTIONS.
 11D. Act to have effect notwithstanding anything contained in Act 31 of 1956.

12. Repeal of Ordinance 7 of 1948.

 THE FIRST SCHEDULE—MATTERS TO BE PROVIDED FOR IN THE COAL MINES POROVIDENT
FUND SCHEME.

 THE SECOND SCHEDULE—MATTERS TO BE PROVIDED FOR IN THE COAL MINES FAMILY
PENSION SCHEME.

 THE THIRD SCHEDULE—MATTERS TO BE PROVIDED FOR IN THE COAL MINES
DEPOSIT-LINKED INSURANCE SCHEME.

 THE FOURTH SCHEDULE—MATTERS TO BE PROVIDED FOR IN THE COAL MINES
BONUS SCHEME.
 THE COAL MINES PROVIDENT FUND AND
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS ACT, 1948

Act No. 46 oF 1948
 [3rd September, 1948.]

 An Act to make provisions for the framing of a Provident Fund Scheme 'L, a *[Pension Scheme]]
3[, a Deposit linked Insurance Scheme] and a Bonus Scheme for persons employed in Coal
Mines.

 4x * * * *
It is hereby enacted as follows:—

1. Short title and extent——°[(/) This Act may be called the Coal Mines Provident Fund and
Miscellaneous Provisions Act 1948].

 °[(2) It extends to the whole of India ”* * *.
2. Interpretation.—In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context,—

(a) “bonus” means any sum of money payable to an * [employee] under the Coal Mines Bonus
Scheme framed under this Act;

° [(aa) “coal” includes lignite;]

'[(b) “coal mine” means any excavation where any operation for the purpose of searching for or
obtaining coal has been or is being carried on, and includes—

(i) all borings and bore holes;

(ii) all shafts, in or adjacent to and belonging to a coal mine, whether in the course of being
sunk or not;

(iii) all levels and inclined planes in the course of being driven;

(iv) any open cast working or quarry, that is to say, an excavation where any operation for the
purpose of searching for or obtaining coal has been or is being carried on, not being a shaft or an
excavation which extends below superjacent ground;

(v) all conveyors or aerial rope-ways provided for the bringing into or removal from a coal
mine of coal or other articles or for the removal of refuse therefrom;

(vi) all adits, levels, planes, machinery, works, railways, tramways and sidings, in or adjacent
to and belonging to a coal mine;

(vii) all workshops situated within the precincts of a coal mine and under the same
management and used for purposes connected with that coal mine or a number of coal mines
under the same management;

(viii) any office of a coal mine;

(ix) all power stations fo r supplying electricity for the purpose of working the coal mine or a
number of coal mines under the same management;

. Subs. by Act 23 of 1996, s. 2, for “Family Pension Scheme” (w.e.f. 31-3-1998).

. Ins. by Act 16 of 1971, s. 2.

- Ins. by Act 99 of 1976, s. 2 (w.e.f. 1-8-1976).

. Omitted by Act 16 of 1971, s. 3.

Subs. by Act 99 of 1976, s. 3, for sub-section (/) (w.e.f. 1-8-1976).

. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for sub-section (2).

. The words “except the State of Jammu and Kashmir” omitted by Act 51 of 1970, s. 2 and the Schedule (w.e.f. 1-9-1971).
. Subs. by Act 80 of 1950, s. 3, for “employee in a coal mine”.

. Ins. by Act 45 of 1965, s. 2 (w.e.f. 1-4-1966).

. Subs. by s. 2, ibid. , for clause (b) (w.e.f. 1-4-1966).

 SOMADNRWNHE
(x) any premises for the time being used for depositing refuse from a coal mine, or in which
any operation in connection with such refuse is being carried on, being premises exclusively
occupied by the employer of the coal mine;

(xi) all hospitals and canteens maintained for the benefit of the employees of a coal mine or a
number of coal mines under the same management;

(xii) any coke oven or plant;

(xiii) any premises in or adjacent to and belonging to a coal mine, on which any plant or other
machinery connected with a coal mine is situated or on which any process ancillary to the work
of a coal mine is being carried on;]

(c) “contribution” means the contribution payable in respect of a member under the Coal Mines
Provident Fund Scheme framed under this Act of '[or the contribution payable in respect of an
employee to whom the Insurance Scheme applies];

*[(@) “employee” means any person who is employed for wages in any kind of work, manual or
otherwise, in or in connection with a coal mine, and who gets his wages directly or indirectly from the
employer, and includes—

(J) any person employed by or through a contractor in or in connection with a coal mine, and
(2) for the purposes of the Coal Mines Provident Fund Scheme, also

(i) any other person who is employed as a sanitary worker, mali, teacher or domestic
servant in or in connection with a coal mine and who receives wages directly from the
employer, and

(ii) any apprentice or trainee who receives stipend or other remuneration from the
employer. ]

*[(e) “employer”, when used in relation to a coal mine, means any person who is the immediate
proprietor or lessee or occupier of the coal mine or of any part thereof and in the case of a coal mine
the business whereof is being carried on by a liquidator or receiver, such liquidator or receiver and in
the case of a coal mine owned by a company the business whereof is being carried on by a managing
agent, such managing agent; but does not include a person who merely receives a royalty, rent or fine
from the coal mine, or is merely the proprietor of the coal mine, subject to any lease, grant or licence
for the working thereof, or is merely the owner of the soil and not interested in the coal of the coal
mine; but any contractor for the working of a coal mine or any part thereof shall be subject to this Act
in like manner as if he were an employer, but not so as to exempt the employer from any liability;]

4a * * * *

(f) “Fund” means the provident fund established under the Coal Mines Provident Fund
Scheme; ** * *

'I(fa) “Insurance Fund” means the Deposit-linked Insurance Fund established under subsection
(2) of section 3G;

(fb) “Insurance Scheme” means the Coal Mines Deposit-linked Insurance Scheme framed under
sub-section (/) of section G;]

°T7[(fe)] [managing agent” has the meaning assigned to it in the Companies Act, 1956
(1 of 1956); and;]

NYNDAMARWNE

. Ins. by Act 99 of 1976, s. 4 (w.e.f. 1-8-1976).

. Subs. by Act 45 of 1965, s. 2, for clause (d) (w.e.f. 1-4-1966).

. Subs. by s. 2, ibid., for clause (e) (w.e.f. 1-4-1966).

. Omitted by Act 23 of 1996, s. 3 (w.e.f. 31-3-1998).

. The word “and” omitted by Act 45 of 1965, s. 2 (w.e.f. 1-4-1966).

. Ins. by s. 2, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-4-1966).

. Clause (ff) re-lettered as clause (fc) thereof by Act 99 of 1976, s. 4 (w.e.f. 1-8-1976).

 4
(g) “member” means a member of the Fund.
 '[(h) “Pension Fund” means the Pension Fund established under sub-section (2) of section 3E;

(i) “Pension Scheme” means the Coal Mines Pension Scheme framed under sub-section (/) of
section 3E;

(/) “superannuation’, ‘in relation to an employee who is a member of the Pension Scheme, means
the attainment, by the said employee, of such age as is fixed in the contract or conditions of service as
the age on the attainment of which such employee shall vacate the employment.]

3. Coal Mines Provident Fund Scheme.—(/) The Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, frame a scheme to be called the Coal Mines Provident Fund Scheme a for the
establishment of a provident fund for * [employees] and specify the coal mines to which the said scheme
shall apply.

3[(1A) The Fund shall vest in, and be administered by, the Board constituted under section 3A.]

(2) Any scheme framed under the provisions of sub-section (/) may provide for all or any of the
matters specified in the First Schedule.

 4[3A. Constitution of Board of Trustees——(/) The Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, constitute, with effect from such date as may be specified therein, a Board of Trustees
for the territories to which this Act extends (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the Board) consisting of
the following persons, namely:—

(a) a Chairman appointed by the Central Government;
(b) the Coal Mines Provident Fund Commissioner, ex Officio;
(c) three persons appointed by the Central Government;

(d) not more than six persons representing Governments of such States as the Central
Government may specify in this behalf, from time to time, appointed by the Central Government;

(e) six persons representing employers, appointed by the Central Government after consultation
with such organisations of employers as may be recognised by the Central Government in this behalf,
and of whom at least one shall be a person who is not a member of any such organisation;

(f) six persons representing employees, appointed by the Central Government after consultation
with such organisations of employees as may be recognised by the Central Government in this behalf
and of whom at least one shall be an employee himself and at least one shall be a person who is not a
member of any such organisation.

 (2) The terms and conditions subject to which a member of the Board may be appointed and the time,
place and procedure of the meetings of the Board shall be such as may be provided for in the Coal Mines
Provident Fund Scheme.

 (3) The Board shall *[, subject to the provisions of section 3E ®fand section 3G],] administer the Fund
Fund vested in it in such manner as may be specified in the Scheme aforesaid.

 (4) The Board shall perform such other functions as it may be required to perform by or under any
provisions of [the Coal Mines Provident Fund Scheme * [, the Coal Mines Family Pension Scheme and
the Insurance Scheme]].

. Ins. by Act 23 of 1996, s. 3 (w.e.f. 31-3-1998).

. Subs. by Act 80 of 1950, s. 4, for “employees in coal mines”.

. Ins. by Act 45 of 1965, s. 3 (w.e.f. 1-4-1966).

. Ins. by s. 4, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-4-1966).

. Ins. by Act 16 of 1971, s. 6 (w.e.f. 13-2-1971).

. Ins. by Act 99 of 1976, s. 5 (w.e.f. 1-8-1976).

. Subs. by Act 16 of 1971, s. 6, for “the scheme aforesaid” (w.e.f. 13-2-1971).

. subs. by Act 99 of 1976, s. 5, for “and the Coal Mines Family Pension Scheme” (w.e.f. 1-8-1976).

 SCIADNRWNHE

5
3B. Board of Trustee to be a body corporate.—The board of Trustees constituted under section 3 A
shall be a body corporate under the name specified in the notification constituting it, having perpetual
succession and a common seal and shall by the said name sue and be sued.

 3C. Appointment of officers.—(/) The Central Government shall appoint a Coal Mines Provident
Fund Commissioner, who shall be the chief executive officer of the Board and shall be subject to the
general control and superintendence of the Board.

 (2) The Central Government may also appoint as many other officers, whose minimum monthly
salary in the scale of pay (if any) applicable to them is not less than four hundred rupees, as it may
consider necessary to assist the Coal Mines Provident Fund Commissioner in the discharge of his duties.

 (3) Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (/) and (2), the Board may appoint such other officers
and employees as it may consider necessary for the efficient administration of the Coal Mines Provident
Fund Scheme, 'L, the Coal Mines Family Pension Scheme and the Insurance Scheme].

 (4) The method of recruitment, salary and allowance, discipline and other conditions of service of the
Coal Mines Provident Fund Commissioner shall be such as may be specified by the Central Government
and such salary and allowances shall be paid out of the Fund.

 (5) The method of recruitment, salary and allowances, discipline and other conditions of service of
other officers and employees of the Board shall be such as may be specified by the Board with the
approval of the Central Government.

 3D. Transfer of accounts.—(/) Where any employee who is a subscriber to any provident fund of
the coal mine in which he is employed becomes a member of the fund in accordance with the provisions
of any Coal Mines Provident Fund Scheme, the accumulations in the provident fund of the coal mine
standing to the credit of the employees shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any
law for the time being in force or in any deed or other instrument establishing the provident fund but
subject to the provisions, if any, contained in the Scheme, be transferred, by such person and within such
time as may be provided in the Scheme, to the Fund and shall be credited to the account of the employee
in the Fund.

 (2) Where a member of the Fund leaves his employment in a coal mine and obtains re-employment in
any other establishment (not being a coal mine to which the Coal Mines Provident Fund Scheme applies)
and becomes a subscriber to any provident fund of that establishment, the amount of accumulations to the
credit of such employee in the Fund shall be transferred, within such time as may be specified by the
Central Government in this behalf, to the credit of his account in the provident fund of the establishment
in which he is re-employed, if the employee so desires and the rules in relation to that provident fund
permit such transfer.

 (3) Where any employee who is a subscriber to any provident fund of an establishment (not being a
coal mine to which the Coal Mines Provident Fund Scheme applies) leaves his employment in that
establishment and obtains re-employment in a coal-mine and becomes a member of the Fund, the amount
of accumulations to the credit 100 of such employee in the provident fund of the establishment left by him
shall, if the employee so desires and the rules in relation to such provident fund so permit, be transferred
to the credit of his account in the Fund.]

°[3E. Coal Mines Pension Scheme.—(/) The Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, frame a scheme to be called the Coal Mines Pension Scheme for the purpose of
providing for—

(a) superannuation pension, retiring pension or permanent total disablement pension to the
persons employed in any coal mine or class of coal mines to which this Act applies; and

(b) widow or widower pension, child ren pension or orphan pension and life assurance benefits,
payable to the beneficiaries of such employees.

 1. Subs. by Act 99 of 1976, s. 6, for “and the Coal Mines Family Pension Scheme” (w.e.f. 1-8-1976).
 2. Subs. by Act 23 of 1996, s. 5, for section 3E (w.e.f. 31-3-1998).

 6
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 3, there shall be established, as soon as may be
after framing of the Pension Scheme, a Pension Fund into which there shall be paid, from time to time, in
respect of every employee who is a member of the Pension Scheme,—

(a) such sums, not exceeding one-fourth, of the amount payable to the Fund under sub-section (/)
of section 10D as the employer’s contribution as well as the employee’s contribution, as may be
specified in the Pension Scheme;

(b) such sums as the Central Government may, after due appropriation made by Parliament by
law in this behalf, specify;

(c) the net assets of the [Pension Fund] as existed immediately before the establishment of the
Pension Fund; and

(d) any other contribution which may be made to the Pension Fund with the previous approval of
the Central Government.

 (3) On the establishment of the Pension Fund, the Pension Scheme (hereinafter referred to as the
ceased scheme) shall cease to operate and all assets of the ceased scheme shall vest in, and shall stand
transferred to, and all liabilities under the ceased scheme shall be enforceable against, the Pension Fund
and the beneficiaries under the ceased scheme shall be entitled to draw the benefits, not less than the
benefits, they were entitled to under the ceased scheme, from the Pension Fund.

 (4) The Pension Fund shall vest in and be administered by the Board in such manner as may be
specified in the Pension Scheme.

 (5) A Scheme framed under the provision of sub-section (/) may provide for all or any of the matters
specified in the Second Schedule.]

 3F. Special grant by Central Government.—The Central Government shall, after due appropriation
made by Parliament by law in this behalf, pay such further sums as may be determined by it into the
Family Pension Fund to meet all the expenses in connection with the administration of the Coal Mines
Family Pension Scheme other than the expenses towards the cost of any benefits provided by or under the
said Scheme.]

'13G. Coal Mines Deposit-linked Insurance Scheme.—({/) The Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, frame a scheme to be called the Coal Mines Deposit-linked Insurance
Scheme for the purpose of providing life insurance benefits to such employees as are covered by the Coal
Mines Provident Fund Scheme.

 (2) There shall be established, as soon as may be after the framing of the Insurance Scheme, a
Deposit-linked Insurance Fund into which shall be paid by the employer from time to time in respect of
every such employee in relation to whom he is the employer such amount, not being more than one per
cent. of the aggregate of the basic wages, dearness allowance and retaining allowance (if any) for the time
being payable in relation to such employee, as the Central Government may, be notification in the Official
Gazette, specify.

 Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-section,—

(a) the expression “basic wages” has the meaning assigned to it in the Employees’ Provident
Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 (19 of 1952);

(b) “dearness allowance” means all cash payments, by whatever name called, paid to an employee
on account of a rise in the cost of living and shall be deemed to include also the cash value of any
food concession allowed to the employee;

(c) “retaining allowance” means an allowance payable for the time being to an employee of any
coal mine during any period in which the coal mine is not working, for retaining his services.

 (3) The Central Government shall after due appropriation made by Parliament by law, contribute to
the Insurance Fund in relation to each employee covered by the Coal Mines Provident Fund Scheme, an

1. Ins. by Act 99 of 1976, s. 7 (w.e.f. 1-8-1976).
 amount representing one half of the contribution which an employer is required, by sub-section (2), to
make.

 (4) (a) The employer shall pay into the Insurance Fund such further sums of money, not exceeding
one-fourth of the contribution which he is required to make under sub-section (2), as the Central
Government, may from time to time, determine, to meet all the expenses in connection with the
administration of the Insurance Scheme other than the expenses towards the cost of any benefits provided
by or under that scheme.

 (b) The Central Government shall, after due appropriation made by Parliament by law, pay into the
Insurance Fund such further sums of money representing one-half of the sums payable by the employer
under clause (a), to meet all the expenses in connection with the administration of the Insurance Scheme
other than the expenses towards the cost of any benefits provided by or under that scheme.

 (5) The Insurance Fund shall vest in the Board and shall be administered by the Board in such manner
as may be specified in the Insurance Scheme.

 (6) Any scheme framed under the provisions of sub-section (/) may provide for all or any of the
matters specified in the Third Schedule. ]

14. Fund to be recognised under Act 43 of 1961.—For the purposes of the Income-tax Act, 1961,
the Fund shall be deemed to be a recognised Provident Fund within the meaning of Part A of the Fourth
Schedule to that Act.]

5. Coal Mines Bonus Schemes.—(/) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, frame a scheme to be called the Coal Mines Bonus Scheme for the payment of bonus to
*[employees] and specify the coal mines to which the said scheme shall apply.

 (2) A scheme framed under the provisions of sub-section (/) may provide for all or any of the matters
specified in the 3[Fourth Schedule.]

 “((3) The employer shall pay the bonus in accordance with the Scheme as aforesaid. ]

6. Retrospective operation of a scheme.—A scheme framed under this Act may provide that any of
its provisions shall come into force either prospectively or retrospectively with effect from such date as
may be specified in this behalf in the scheme.

 7. Modification of a scheme.—The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
add to, amend or vary, * [either prospectively or retrospectively] a scheme framed under this Act.

 °[7A. Schemes to be laid before Parliament.—Every scheme made under this Act shall be laid as
soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament while it is in session for a total period of
thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in ‘[two or more successive sessions, and if, before
the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid], both
Houses agree in making any modification in the scheme or both Houses agree that the scheme should not
be made, the scheme shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case
may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that scheme.

 7B. Determination of moneys due from employers.—(/) The Coal Mines Provident Fund
Commissioner or any other officer duly authorised in this behalf by the Central Government may, by
order, determine the amount due from any employer under any provision of this Act or of any scheme
framed thereunder and for this purpose may conduct such enquiry as he may deem necessary.

Subs. by Act 23 of 1996, s. 6, for section 4 (w.e.f. 31-3-1996).

 Subs. by Act 80 of 1950, s. 4, for “employees in coal mines”.

 Subs. by Act 99 of 1976, s. 8, for “Third Schedule” (w.e.f. 1-8-1976).
 Ins. by Act 45 of 1965, s. 5 (w.e.f. 1-4-1966).

 Ins. by Act 99 of 1976, s. 9 (w.e.f. 1-8-1976).

 Ins. by Act 45 of 1965, s. 6 (w.e.f. 1-4-1966).

 Subs. by Act 99 of 1976, s. 10, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-8-1976).

 NAME YWNE

8
(2) The officer conducting the enquiry under sub-section (/) shall, for the purpose of such enquiry,
have the same powers as are vested in a Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) for
trying a suit in respect of the following matters, namely:—

(a) enforcing the attendance of any person or examining him on oath;
(b) requiring the discovery and production of documents;

(c) receiving evidence on affidavit;

(d) issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses;

and any such enquiry shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning of sections 193 and
228, and for the purpose of section 196, of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).

 (3) No order determining the amount due from any employer shall be made under sub-section (/)
unless the employer is given a reasonable opportunity of representing his case.

 (4) An order made under this section shall be final and shall not be questioned in any Court of law.]

8. Protection against attachment.—(/) The amount of provident fund standing to the credit of any
member in the Fund shall not in any way be capable of being assigned or charged and shall not be liable
to attachment under any decree or order of any Court in respect of any debt or liability incurred by the
member and neither the Official Assignee nor any Receiver appointed under the Provincial Insolvency
Act, 1920 (5 of 1920), shall be entitled to, or have any claim on, any such amount.

 (2) Any amount standing to the credit of any member in the Fund at the time of his death and payable
to his nominee under the Coal Mines Provident Fund Scheme shall, subject to any deduction authorized
by the said scheme, vest in the nominee and shall be free from any debt or other liability incurred by the
deceased or incurred by the nominee before the death of the member.

 '1(3) The provisions of sub-section (/) and sub-section (2) shall, so far as may be, apply in relation to
the family pension or any other amount payable under the Coal Mines Family Pension Scheme [and also
in relation to any amount payable under the Insurance Scheme] as they apply in relation to any amount
payable out of the Fund.]

9. Penalty — [(/ ) If any person—

(a) contravenes any provisions of this Act or of any scheme framed thereunder, he shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may
extend to one thousand rupees or with both;

(b) who has been convicted of any offence punishable is aforesaid, is again guilty of any such
offence within a period of two years from the date of the previous conviction, he shall be punishable
on conviction with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine which may
extend to two thousand rupees, or with both.]

(2) No Court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under ‘Tsub-section (1)] except on a
report in writing of the facts constituting such offence made by an Inspector with the previous sanction of
such authority as may be specified in this behalf by the Central Government.

 > [(3) No Court inferior to that of a Presidency Magistrate or a Magistrate of the first class shall try any
offence punishable under sub-section (/)].

 10. Inspectors.—(/) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint
such persons as it thinks fit to be Inspectors for the purposes of the Coal Mines Provident Fund Scheme
S[or the Insurance Scheme] or the Coal Mines Bonus Scheme and may define their jurisdiction.

 1. Ins. by Act 16 of 1971, s. 10 (w.e-f. 13-2-1971).

 2. In s. by Act 99 of 1976, s. 11 (w.e.f. 1-8-1976).

 3. Subs. by Act 45 of 1965, s. 7, for sub-section (/) (w.e.f. 1-4-1966).
4. Subs. by s. 7, ibid., for “any such scheme” (w.e.f. 1-4-1966).

 5. Ins. by s. 7, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-4-1966).

6. Ins. by Act 99 of 1976, s. 12 (w.e.f. 1-8-1976).
 (2) An Inspector may, in respect of any coal mine within his jurisdiction, —

'[(a) require an employer or any contractor from whom any amount is recoverable under
section 1OE—

(i) to furnish such information, or

(ii) to produce in the office of the Inspector or such other place as may be nearer to the
employer or, as the case may be, the contractor, such accounts, books, registers and other
documents,

relating to the employment of persons in a coal mine as the Inspector may consider necessary for the
purposes of any scheme framed under this Act;]

(b) at any reasonable time * Tand with such assistance, if any, as he may think fit, enter and search
any coal mine] and require any one found in charge thereof to produce before him such accounts,
books, registers and other documents relating to the employment of persons in the coal mine as he
may consider necessary;

(c) examine, with respect to any matter relevant to any of the purposes aforesaid, the employer
’[or any contractor from whom any amount is recoverable under section 10E], his agent or servant or
any other person found in charge of the coal mine ** * * or whom the Inspector has reasonable cause
to believe to be or to have been an employee in the coal mine.

3d) make copies of, or take extracts from, any accounts, books, registers or other documents
maintained in relation to a coal mine and where he has reason to believe that any offence under this
Act has been committed by an employer or contractor, seize with such assistance as he may think fit,
such accounts, books, registers or other documents or portions thereof as he may consider relevant in
respect of that offence;

(e) exercise such other powers as any such Scheme may provide.]

3(2A) Every person required to furnish any information or produce any document under clause (a) or
clause (b) of sub-section (2) shall be deemed to be legally bound to do so within the meaning of section
175 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).

 (2B) The provisions of the >[Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, (2 of 1974)] shall, so far as may be,
apply to any search or seizure under sub-section (2) as they apply to any search or seizure made under the
authority of a warrant issued under *[section 94 of the said Code.]

(3) Every Inspector shall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of section 21 of the
Indian Penal Code, 1860 (45 of 1860).

 °[10A, Mode of recovery of money due from an employer.—Any amount due from an employer in
in respect of any contribution or bonus under any scheme framed under this Act ’[or any accumulations
required to be transferred under sub-section (J) or sub-section (3) of section 3D or any damages
recoverable under section 10F or any charges payable by the employer under this Act in respect of the
administration of any such scheme] may be recovered by the Central Government in the same manner as
an arrear of land revenue. ]

 5110B. Determination of employer in certain cases.—(/) Where the employer is a firm or other
association of individuals, all, or any of the partners or members thereof, or where the employer is a
company, all or any of the directors thereof, may be prosecuted and punished under this Act for any
offence for which the employer is punishable:

. Subs. by Act 45 of 1965, s. 8, for clause (a) (w.e.f. 1-4-1966).

. Subs. by s. 8, ibid., for “enter any coal mine or its office” (w.e.f. 1-4-1966).
. Ins. by s. 8, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-4-1966).

 The words “or its office” omitted by s. 8, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-4-1996).

Subs. by Act 23 of 1996, s. 7, for certain words (w.e.f. 31-3-1996).

. Ins. by Act 21 of 1951, s. 2.

. Ins. by Act 45 of 1965, s. 9 (w.e.f. 1-4-1966).

. Ins. by s. 10, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-4-1966).

 SPA DWARWNS

10
Provided that where a firm, association or company has given notice in writing to the Coal Mines
Provident Fund Commissioner or any officer specified by the Central Government in this behalf that it
has nominated,—

(a) in the case of a firm, any of its partners,
(b) in the case of an association, any of its members,
(c) in the case of a company, any of its directors,

who is resident in each case in any place to which this Act extends and who is in each case either in fact
in charge of the management of, or holds the largest number of shares in, such firm, association or
company, to assume the responsibility of the employer for the purposes of this Act or of any scheme
framed thereunder, such partner, member or director, as the case may be, shall, so long as he continues to
so reside and be in charge or hold the largest number of shares as aforesaid, be deemed to be the employer
for the purposes of this Act or any scheme framed thereunder, unless a notice in writing cancelling his
nomination or stating that he has ceased to be a partner, member or director, as the case may be, is
received by the Coal Mines Provident Fund Commissioner or any officer specified by the Central
Government in this behalf.

 (2) Where the employer is a Government or any local authority, all or any of the officers or persons
authorised by such Government or local authority, as the case may be, to manage the affairs of the coal
mine, shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any law or contract for the time being
in force, be deemed to be the employers or employer in respect of the coal mine and may be prosecuted
and punished under this Act for any offence for which the employer is punishable.

 10C. Delegation of powers.—(/) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, direct that any power exercisable by it under this Act or any scheme framed thereunder shall,
subject to such conditions, if any, as may be specified in the notification, be exercisable also by the Coal
Mines Provident Fund Commissioner or any officer authorised in this behalf by the Central Government.

 (2) The Board may delegate to its Chairman or the Coal Mines Provident Fund Commissioner or any
other officer or the Board, subject to such conditions and limitations, if any, as the Board may specify,
such of the powers and functions of the Board under this act or any scheme framed thereunder, as the
Board may deem necessary for the efficient administration of any scheme framed under this Act.

 10D. Payment of contribution by employers and recovery thereof from members.—(/) The
contribution shall be payable by the employer (hereinafter referred to as the employer’s contribution) and
by the employee (hereinafter referred to as the employee’s contribution) at such rate as may be specified
in the Coal Mines Provident Fund Scheme, and the employer shall pay the employer’s contribution as
well as the employee’s contribution, whether or not he has recovered from any employee the employee’s
share of the contribution.

 (2) The amount of any contribution paid by the employer on behalf of a member shall,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law for the time being in force or any
contract, be recoverable by means of deduction from the wages of the member and not otherwise.

 (3) Save as otherwise provided in the Coal Mines Provident Fund Scheme, no deduction under
sub-section (2) shall be made from any wages other than such as are paid in respect of the period for
which the contribution is payable.

 (4) Notwithstanding any contract to the contrary, the employer shall not be entitled to deduct the
employer’s contribution or the charges referred to in section 10A from the wages of a member or
otherwise to recover such contribution or charges from such member.

 10E. Recovery of monies by employers and contractors.—(/) ' [The amount of contribution (that is
to say the employer’s contribution as well as the employee’s contribution in pursuance of the Coal Mines
Provident Fund Scheme and the employer’s contribution in pursuance of the Insurance Scheme)] and any
charges referred to in section 10A paid or payable by an employer in respect of an employee employed by
or through a contractor and any bonus paid or payable under any Coal Mines Bonus Scheme in respect of

1. Subs. by Act 99 of 1976, s. 13, for certain words and brackets (w.e.f. 1-8-1976).

 11
any such employee may be recovered by such employer from the contractor either by deduction from any
amount payable to the contractor under any contract or as a debt payable by the contractor.

 (2) A contractor from whom the amounts mentioned in sub-section (/) may be recovered in respect of
any employee employed by or through him may, save as otherwise provided in the Coal Mines Provident
Fund Scheme, recover from such employee the employee’s contribution under any such Scheme by
deduction from the wages payable to the employee subject to the condition that no such deduction shall
be made from any wages other than such as are payable in respect of the period to which the employee’s
contribution relates.

 (3) Notwithstanding any contract to the contrary, no contractor shall be entitled to deduct the
employer’s contribution or the charges or bonus referred to in sub-section (/) from the amount payable to
an employee employed by or through him or otherwise to recover such contribution or charges or bonus
from such employee.

 10F. Power to recover damages.—Where an employer makes default in the payment of any
contribution or bonus or any charges payable by him under any scheme framed under this Act, or where
any person who is required to transfer provident fund accumulations in accordance with the provisions of
section 3D makes default in the transfer of such accumulations, the Central Government may recover
from such employer or person, as the case may be, such damages, not exceeding twenty-five per cent of
the amount of arrears, as it may think fit to impose.]

11. Priority of payment of contributions and bonus over other debts.—The amount due in respect
of any contribution or bonus under a scheme framed under this Act or any charges incurred in respect of
the administration of any such scheme, shall, where the liability therefore has accrued before the persons
liable has been adjudicated insolvent or, in the case of a company ordered to be wound up, before the date
of such order, be deemed to be included among the debts which, under section 49 of the
Presidency-towns Insolvency Act, 1909 (3 of 1909), or under section 61 of the Provincial Insolvency Act,
1920 (5 of 1920), or under section 230 of the '[Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956),] are to be paid in
priority to all other debts in the distribution of the property of the insolvent or the assets of a company
being wound up, as the case may be.

 *[11A. Protection for acts done in good faith.—No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against
any person in respect of anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act or
under any schemes framed thereunder.]

 °[11B. Power to remove difficulties.—If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of
this Act or any scheme framed thereunder the Central Government may, by order published in the Official
Gazette, make such provision or give such direction not inconsistent with the purposes of this Act, as it
appears to it to be necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty.]

 “[11C. Power to exempt.—(/) The Central Governmen t may, if requested so to do by the employer,
by notification in the Official Gazette, and subject to such conditions as may be specified in the
notification, exempt any coal mine from the operation of all or any of the provisions of the Insurance
Scheme, if it is satisfied that the employees of such coal mine are without making any separate
contribution or payment of premium, in enjoyment of benefits in the nature of life insurance, whether
linked to their deposits in provident fund or not, and such benefits are more favourable to such employees
than the benefits admissible under the Insurance Scheme.

 (2) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (/), the Insurance Scheme may provide for the
exemption of any person or class of persons employed in any coal mine and covered by that scheme from
the operation of all any of the provisions thereof, if the benefits in the nature of life insurance admissible
to such person or class of persons are more favourable than the benefits provided under the Insurance
Scheme.

 1. Subs. by Act 23 of 1996, s. 8, for certain words (w.e.f. 31-3-1998).
 2. Ins. by Act 80 of 1950, s. 5.

3. Ins. by Act 45 of 1965, s. 11 (w.e-f. 1-4-1966).

 4. Ins. by Act 99 of 1976, s. 14 (w.e.f. 1-8-1976).

 12
(3) Where in respect of any person or class of persons employed in any coal mine, an exemption is
granted under this section from the operation of all or any of the provisions of the Insurance Scheme
(whether such exemption is granted to the coal mine wherein such person or class of persons is employed
or to the person or class of persons as such), the employer in relation to such coal mine—

(a) shall, in relation to the benefits in the nature of life insurance, to which any such person or
class of persons is entitled, or any insurance fund, maintain such accounts, submit such returns, make
such investment, provide for such facilities for inspection and pay such inspection charges, as the
Central Government may direct;

(b) shall not, at any time after the exemption without the leave of the Central Government, reduce
the total quantum of benefits in the nature of life insurance to which any such person or class of
persons was entitled immediately before the date of the exemption; and

(c) shall, where any such person leaves his employment and obtains reemployment in any other
coal mine transfer within such time as may be specified in this behalf by the Central Government, the
amount of accumulations to the credit of that person in the insurance fund of the coal mine left by him
to the credit of that person’s account in the insurance fund of the coal mine in which he is
reemployed or, as the case may be, in the Deposit-linked Insurance Fund.

 Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-section “insurance fund” means any fund established by
an employer under any scheme for providing benefits in the nature of life insurance to employees,
whether linked to their deposits in provident fund or not, without payment by the employees of any
separate contribution or premium in that behalf.

 (4) Any exemption granted under this section may be cancelled by the authority which granted it, by
order in writing, if an employer fails to comply—

(a) in the case of an exemption granted under sub-section (/) with any of the conditions imposed
under that sub-section or with any of the provisions of sub-section (3);

(b) in the case of an exemption granted under sub-section (2), with any of the provisions of
sub-section (3).

 (5) Where any exemption granted under sub-section (/) or sub-section (2) is cancelled, the amount of
accumulations to the credit of every employee to whom such exemption applied, in the insurance fund of
the coal mine in which he is employed shall be transferred within such time and in such manner as may be
specified in the Insurance Scheme to the credit of his account in the Insurance Fund.

 11D. Act to have effect notwithstanding anything contained in Act 31 of 1956.—The provisions
of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in the Life
Insurance Corporation Act, 1956.]

12. Repeal of Ordinance 7 of 1948.—(/) The Coal Mines Provident Fund and Bonus Schemes
Ordinance, 1948, is hereby repealed.

 (2) Notwithstanding any such repeal, anything done or any action taken in exercise of any power
conferred by or under the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or taken in exercise of the
powers conferred by or under this Act, as if this Act had commenced on the 23rd day of April, 1948.

 13
THE FIRST SCHEDULE
(See section 3)
MATTERS TO BE PROVIDED FOR IN THE COAL MINES POROVIDENT FUND SCHEME

1. The employees or class of employees who shall join the Fund, the contributions payable to the
Fund and the conditions under which an employee may be exempted from joining the Fund or from
payment of contributions.

 '[2. Payment of contributions to the Fund by employers and by, or on behalf of, ? [employees
(whether employed by an employer directly or by or through a contractor),] the rate, time and manner of
such payment and the manner in which such contributions may be recovered.]

3[2A. The manner in which employees’ contribution may be recovered by contractors from
employees employed by or through such contractors.]

3. The payment by the employer of such sums of money as may be considered necessary to meet the
cost of administering the Fund and the rate at which and the manner in which “[the payment shall be
made.]

 >[4. The constitution of any Committee for assisting the Board.]
° [5. The opening of regional and other offices. ]

6. The manner in which accounts shall be kept, the investment of moneys belonging to the Fund, the
preparation of a budget, the audit of accounts and the submission of reports to the Central Government.

 7. The conditions under which withdrawals from the Fund may be permitted and any deduction or
forfeiture may be made and TT, the maximum amount of such deduction or forfeiture and the utilisation of
such deducted or forfeited amounts. ]

8. The fixation of the rate of interest payable to members by the Central Government in consultation
with the Board of Trustees.

 9. The form in which an employee shall furnish particulars about himself and his family when
required.

 10. The nomination of a person to receive the amount standing to the credit of a member after his
“death and the cancellation or the change of such nomination.

 11. The registers and records to be maintained by the employer *[or contractor] and the returns to be
furnished by him.

 12. The form or design of an identity card or a token or a disc for purposes of identifying any
employee and for the issue, custody and replacement thereof.

 13. The fees to be levied for any of the purposes specified in this Schedule.

 8[13A. The manner in which accumulations in any existing provident fund shall be transferred to the
Fund under section 3D, and the mode of valuation of any assets which may be transferred by the person
administering such provident fund.

 14. Any other matter which is to be provided for in the Coal Mines Provident Fund Scheme or which
may be necessary or proper for the purpose of implementing that Scheme.]

Subs. by Act 21 of 1951, s. 3, for para 2 (w.e.f. 28-4-1951).

 Subs. by Act 45 of 1965, s. 12, for “employees” (w.e.f. 1-4-1966).
 Ins. by s. 12, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-4-1966).

Subs. by Act 21 of 1951, s. 3, for “it shall be paid”.

 Subs. by Act 45 of 1965, s. 12, for item 4 (w.e.f. 1-4-1966).

 Subs. by s. 12, ibid., for item 5 (w.e.f. 1-4-1966).

Subs. by s. 12, ibid. , for certain words (w.e.f. 1-4-1966).

 Subs. by s. 12, ibid. , for item 14 (w.e.f. 1-4-1966).

 SPADMWPYWNE

14
‘(THE SECOND SCHEDULE
(See section 3E(5)]
MATTERS TO BE PROVIDED FOR IN THE COAL MINES FAMILY PENSION SCHEME

1. The employees or class of employees to whom the Coal Mines Pension Scheme shall apply and
the time within which option to join that scheme shall be exercised by those employees to whom the said
scheme does not apply.

 2. The time within which the employees who are not members of the Family Pension Scheme under
section 3E as it stood before the commencement of the Coal Mines Provident Fund and Miscellaneous
Provisions (Amendment) Act, 1996 (hereinafter, in this Schedule, referred to as the amending Act) shall
opt for the Pension Scheme.

 3. The portion of employers’ contribution and employees’ contribution to the Fund which shall be
credited to the Pension Fund and the manner in which it is credited.

 4. The Central Government contribution and other contributions to the Fund which shall be credited
to the Pension Fund and the manner in which it is credited.

 5. The minimum qualifying service for being eligible for pension and the manner in which the
employees may be granted the benefits of their past service under section 3E as it stood before the
commencement of the amending Act.

6. The regulation of the period of service for which no contribution is received.

 7. The manner in which employees’ interest will be protected against default in payment of
contribution by the employer.

 8. The manner in which the accounts of the Pension Fund shall be kept and investment of moneys
belonging to Pension Fund to be made subject to such pattern of investment as may be determined by the
Central Government

9. The form in which an employee shall furnish particulars about himself and the members of his
family whenever required.

 10. The forms, registers and records to be maintained in respect of employees required for the
administration of the Pension Scheme.

 11. The scale of pension and pensionary benefits and the conditions relating to grant of such benefits
to the employees, the amount of life assurance payable under the Pension Scheme and the manner of such
payment.

12. The mode of disbursement of pension and arrangements to be entered into with such disbursing
agencies as may be specified for the purpose.

 13. The manner in which the expenses incurred in connection with the administration of the Pension
Scheme may be paid by the Central Government to the Board.

14. Nomination of persons for receiving pension and assurance amounts in the case of death of an
employee.

 15. Any other matter which is to be provided for in the Pension Scheme or which may be necessary or
proper for the purpose of implementation of the Pension Scheme.].

1. Subs. by Act 23 of 1996, s. 9, for the Second Schedule (w.e.f. 31-3-1998).

 15
‘(THE THIRD SCHEDULE
(See section 3G)
MATTERS TO BE PROVIDED FOR IN THE COAL MINES DEPOSIT-LINKED INSURANCE SCHEME
1. The employees or class of employees who shall be covered by the Insurance Scheme.

 2. The manner in which the accounts of the Insurance Fund shall be kept and the investment of
moneys belonging to the Insurance Fund, subject to such pattern of investment as may be determined, by
order, by the Central Government.

 3. The form in which an employee shall furnish particulars about himself and the members of his
family whenever required.

 4. The nomination of a person to receive the insurance amount due to the employee after his death
and the cancellation or variation of such nomination.

 5. The registers and records to be maintained in respect of employees; the form or design of any
identity card, token or disc for the purpose of identifying any employee or his nominee or member of his
family entitled to receive the insurance amount.

 6. The scales of insurance amount which shall not be less than the average balance in the account of
the employee concerned in the Fund during a period of three years immediately preceding his death or
more than rupees ten thousand.

7 . The minimum average balance to be maintained by an employee in the Fund to make him eligible
for the benefits under the scheme.

 8. The manner in which the amount due to the nominee or the member of the family of the employee
under the scheme is to be paid including a provision that the amount shall not be paid otherwise than in
the form of a deposit in a savings bank account, in the name of such nominee or member of family, in any
corresponding new bank specified in the First Schedule to the Banking Companies (Acquisition and
Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 (5 of 1970).

 9. Any other matter which is to be provided for in the Insurance Scheme or which may be necessary
or proper for the purpose of implementing that scheme.]

1. Ins. by Act 99 of 1976, s. 15 (w.e.f. 1-8-1976).

 16
'[THE FOURTH SCHEDULE]
(See section 5)
MATTERS TO BE PROVIDED FOR IN THE COAL MINES BONUS SCHEME

1. The payment of bonus dependent on the attendance of an *[employee] during any period.

 2. The employees or class of employees who shall be eligible for the bonus and the conditions of
eligibility.

 3. The rate at which the bonus shall be payable to an employee and the manner in which the bonus
shall be calculated.

 4. The conditions under which an employee may be debarred from getting the bonus in whole or in
part.

 5. The rate at which sums shall be set apart by the employer for payment of bonus and the time and
manner of such payment.

 6. The registers and records to be maintained by the employer *[or contractor] and the returns to be
furnished by him.

 ‘16A. The transfer, by an employer to the Fund or any other fund specified by the Central
Government, of the amount of bonus remaining unpaid or unclaimed for a period of six months from the
end of the quarter to which the bonus relates and the extinguishment of the employer’s liability to his
employees to the extent of the amount so transferred.

 7. Any other matter which is to be provided for in the Coal Mines Bonus Scheme or which may be
necessary or proper for the purpose of implementing that Scheme.]

1. THE THIRD SCHEDULE re-numbered as THE FOUTH SCHEDULE by Act 99 of 1976, s. 15 (w.e.f. 1-8-1976).
 2. Subs. by Act 80 of 1950, s. 6, for “employee in coal mine”.

 3. Ins. by Act 45 of 1965, s. 13 (w.e.f. 1-4-1966).

 4. Subs. by s. 13, ibid. , for item 7 (w.e.f. 1-4-1966).

 17
THE COAL INDIA (REGULATION OF TRANSFERS AND VALIDATION) ACT, 2000
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

SECTIONS

Short title.

 Definitions.

 Power of Central Government to direct transfer of land, rights, title or interest.
 Validation of certain transfers.

 RYN PS
THE COAL INDIA (REGULATION OF TRANSFERS AND VALIDATION) ACT, 2000
ACT NO. 45 OF 2000
 [8th December, 2000.]

 An Act to empower the Central Government to direct the transfer of the land, or of the rights in
or over land or of the right, title and interest in relation to a coal mine, coking coal mine or
coke oven plant, vested in the Coal India Limited or in a subsidiary company to any
subsidiary company of Coal India Limited or any other subsidiary company and to validate
certain transfers of such land or rights.

 BE it enacted by Parliament in the Fifty-first Year of the Republic of India as follows:—

1. Short title —This Act may be called the Coal India (Regulation of Transfers and Validation) Act,
2000.

 2. Definitions.—In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—

(a) “Coal India” means the Coal India Limited, a Government company incorporated under the
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) having its registered office at Calcutta and includes its predecessor
Government company, namely, the Coal Mines Authority Limited;

(b) “subsidiary company” means the following subsidiary companies of Coal India, namely:—

(i) the Central Coal Fields Limited, Ranchi and includes its predecessor Government
company, namely, the National Coal Development Corporation Limited, Ranchi;

(ii) the Bharat Coking Coal Limited, Dhanbad;

(iii) the Western Coal Fields Limited, Nagpur;

(iv) the Eastern Coal Fields Limited, Sanctoria;

(v) the Central Mine Planning and Design Institute Limited, Ranchi;
(vi) the South-Eastern Coal Fields Limited, Bilaspur;

(vii) the Northern Coal Fields Limited, Singrauli;

(viii) the Mahanadi Coal Fields Limited, Sambalpur;

and includes such other subsidiary company of Coal India as may be incorporated under the
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) from time to time;

(c) words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Coking Coal Mines
(Nationalisation) Act, 1972 (36 of 1972) or the Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1973 (26 of 1973),
shall have the meanings, respectively, assigned to them in those Acts.

 3. Power of Central Government to direct transfer of land, rights, title or interest —(/)
 Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, the Central Government
may, if it is satisfied that a subsidiary company is willing to comply, or has complied, with such terms
and conditions as that Government think fit to impose, direct, by notification in the Official Gazette, that
the land or rights in or over such land or the right, title and interest in relation to a coal mine, coking coal
mine or a coke over plant vested in the Coal India shall, instead of continuing to vest in the Coal India,
vest in that subsidiary company or, where such land or right, title or interest vests in subsidiary company,
in another subsidiary company.

 (2) Where the land or right in or over such land or the right, title and interest in relation to a coal
mine, coking coal mine or a coke over plant vest in a subsidiary company under sub-section(/), such
subsidiary company shall, on and from the date of such vesting, be deemed to have become the lessee in
relation to such coal mine or coking coal mine as if a fresh mining lease in relation to such coal mine or
coking coal mine had been granted to it under the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960 made under section 13

2
of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957) for the maximum
period for which such lease could have been granted under those rules, and all the rights and liabilities of
Coal India or, as the case may be, the subsidiary company in relation to such coal mine or coking coal
mine shall, on and from the date of such vesting, be deemed to have become the rights and liabilities,
respectively, of subsidiary company first-mentioned.

 4. Validation of certain transfers——A subsidiary company which was operating, or was in control
of, any coal mine, coking coal mine, or coke oven plant which was vested in the Coal India or any other
subsidiary company immediately before the commencement of this Act, shall be deemed to have been
vested with the land or rights in or over such land or the right, title and interest in relation to such coal
mine, coking coal mine or coke oven plant and such vesting shall be deemed to have been valid and
effective at all material times as if a direction had been made by the Central Government under
sub-section (/) of section 3 and accordingly no suit or other proceeding shall be instituted, maintained or
continued in any court on the ground that such subsidiary company was not competent to operate or
control such coal mine, coking coal mine or coke oven plant.
 F.No. 13011/3/2017-CBA2
Government of India
Ministry of Coal
KOK OK
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi
Dated the od September, 2017

OFFICE MEMORANDUM

Subject: Methodology to provide the coal block allottee PSUs of
Power Sector with some flexibility in utilization of coal extracted
from the coal mines allotted under the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Act, 2015 for optimum utilization of coal mine for the
same end uses in the public interest and to achieve cost efficiencies

The undersigned is directed to refer to the subject mentioned above
and to say that an Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC) has been
constituted under the chairmanship of Additional Secretary (Coal) to
devise methodology to provide the coal block allottee PSUs with some
flexibility in utilization of coal extracted from the coal mines allotted
under the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 {CM(SP) Act, 2015}
for optimum utilization of coal mine for the same end uses in the public
interest and to achieve cost efficiencies. The 1st meeting of IMC was
held on 07.08.2017 at 3:00 PM in the conference room of Ministry of
Coal, IMC recommended that to start with, methodology for
arrangement between two allottee PSUs which have been allotted coal
mines under the provisions of CM(SP) Act, 2015 would be considered.

 2. In view of the methodology deliberated by IMC in its first meeting
and comments of Ministry of Power received vide No. FU-17/2017-IPC
dated 30.08.2017 thereon, the following methodology has been
approved by this Ministry:

a. The arrangement (s) / agreements (s) shall be in accordance with
Section 20 (1) of the Coai Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 read
with Rules 19 of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014.

b. The present methodology has been formulated for arrangement (s//
agreements (s) that may be entered between a PSU (hereinafter
referred to as “the PSU”) which has been allotted coal mine(s) under
the provisions of CM (SP) Act, 2015 on the one hand and “other PSU”
which has either been allotted coal mine (s) or granted coal linkage (s)
for same end uses onthe other The scope of such
arrangement/agreement may include transfer of coal by the PSU to
other PSU in lieu of coal or power generated from such coal,

c. Arrangement for optimum utilization of coal mine with a company
which is not a successful bidder or allottee or has not been granted

coal linkage(s) is not allowed as such an arrangement is not
permissible as per the CM(SP) Act, 2015.

 d. The agreement(s)/arrangement(s) as provided in the Section 20(1)

of the CM (SP) Act, 2015 should be for optimum utilization of the coal -
mine, for the same end uses, in the public interest and to achieve cost

efficiencies. The overall objective should be to reduce the cost of

power,

@. To achieve transparency, the particulars mentioned in Rule 19(2) of
CMSP Rules, 2014 should be displayed on the website of PSU allottee.

 f. Before making an application to the Ministry of Coal, both the parties
to the arrangement should categorically certify the following regarding
the proposed arrangements:

i, Such arrangement results in optimum utilisation of coal mine.
 i, Such arrangement achieves cost efficiencies.
iii. Such arrangement is in public interest.

 g. The application for the proposed arrangement (s)/ agreement (s)
shall contain full justification, calculations and the basis of arriving at
the conclusions in above para. The relevant calculations showing the
reduction in cost of power before and after the proposed agreement
(s)/ arrangement (s) should also be enclosed. The Proposal so received
would be examined by a Technical Committee (TC) that may be
constituted or a Transaction Advisor (TA) that may be appointed for the
purpose. The report containing recommendations of TC/TA shall be sent
to MoP for comments. Upon receiving the comments/recommendation
from MoP, MoC shall take a decision on the proposed arrangement (s)/
agreement (s).

 h. The parties would be required to furnish such additional information
as may be required.

 i. Since the arrangement (s)/ agreement (s) under Section 20(1) are to
be in public interest, these should result i n reduction in cost of power.

 j. CERC/SERC while determining tariff, shall ensure that the benefits of
such arrangements are passed on to the consumers.

 k. In case of coal being transferred in lieu of power generated from
such coal,

i all the power generated from the transferred coal under the
arrangement(s)/agreement (s) shall be supplied to "the PSU" or its
beneficiary Discom(s) as the first right of "the PSU " provided that
any power not requisitioned by the PSU or its beneficiary Discom(s

) shall be treated as per the provisions of the Tariff Policy notified
by Ministry of Power under section 3 of the Electricity Act,
2003 or as may be notified by Ministry of Power.

 ii. The landed cost of power generated and delivered to the “the
PSU” (or its beneficiary Discom) transferring coal shall include
corresponding fixed charges, variable charges and transmission
charges at the periphery of the beneficiary Discom of “the PSU”
transferring coal and should be cheaper than the variable charge
for generation from the existing options of using coal in plant(s)
owned by “the PSU”. This condition would be applicable where the
coal proposed to be transferred is being utilized in an existing
plant by “the PSU” transferring coal and such transfer of coal
would result into backing down the generation from that plant.
 The condition may not be insisted upon where the PSU transfers
the coal which is more than normative requirement of linked EUPs.

 Il. Except in accordance with the arrangement/agreement approved
under this policy or in accordance with the respective allotment
agreement /CMDPA, no trading or sale of coal shall be allowed since
coal mines have been allotted for specified end use.

 m. Monitoring of the agreement(s)/arrangement(s) with regard to coal
production would be done by CCO, with regard to power generated
and delivered would be done by CEA, and with regard to tariffs by
concerned regulators.

 n. The arrangements should be worked out in consultation with the
Railways, if it involves transport of coal by rail mode.

 0. An inter-ministerial sub-group consisting of representatives from
Ministry of Power, Ministry of Coal, Ministry of Railways, CEA and
POSOCO would be constituted to look into various Operational issues
arising during implementation of this scheme. The sub-group would
meet at least quarterly and the methodology will be reviewed
periodically for amendments, if any, based on the experience gained
during the process.

 3. This is issued with the approval of the Competent Authority.

 (Rishan R fang)
 Under Secretary to the Government of India
Ph:23073936

To:

1. Additional Secretary, Ministry of Coal, Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi
2. Secretary, Ministry of Power, Shram Shakti Bhawan, New Delhi

3. Chairman, Railway Board, Ministry of Railways, Rail Bhawan, New
Delhi

4, Secretary, Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance, North
Block, New Dethi

5. Secretary, Department of Legal Affairs, Ministry of Law and Justice,
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi

6. Nominated Authority, Ministry of Coal, Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi
7. Joint Secretary (RKS), Ministry of Coal, Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi
8, Chairperson, CERC, 3rd & 4th Floor, Chanderlok Building, 36,
Janpath, New Delhi.

 9. Member (Thermal), CEA, SewaBhawan, New Delhi

10. CMD, SCCL

11. CMD, Coal India Limited

12. Director (CBA-II), Ministry of Coal

Copy for information to:

1, OSD to Minister of Coal and Railways
2. PSO to Secretary (Coal)

3. JS (VB), MoC

4. JS&FA, MoC

S. TD (NIC), MA Coal ‘for upbradsrnay om websde, of Mivistng of Gal ,

283176/2021/P&S-II

<Rreft a. Aua.- 33004/99 REGD. NO. D. L.-33004/99

Che Gazette of India

aloft. -S1.Vel.-31.-15022020-216173
CG-DL-E-15022020-216173

STATA
EXTRAORDINARY

 amt [l—e@rs 3—sY-are (ii)
PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (ii)

srferare & year fart
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

a. 621] ae feet, gaeaftarz, were 13, 2020/aTs 24, 1941
No. 621] NEW DELHI, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2020/MAGHA 24, 1941
Brae HATA

ae faeett, 13 Hatt, 2020

HLA. 680(H). — ator Bret (Aetleet) TEATS, 2020 (2020 Fr 1) aret zat Aertfera FAAT
ara (faera state) arferfara, 2015 (2015 ar 11) At aver 18 AY So-eret (1) aret Gat orfeeat ar
STANT Hed SUT AdlT AHe Uae Hera, Bra Shear fries Fr areave wasg fers Tsay.
 Feet Bet Ales Hh TST US TAT Sq ATS alseery BT FS aH Heat SI

[r. a. ATT 2-13016/1/2018-ette2]
aaa Far fare, Fara aT

MINISTRY OF COAL
NOTIFICATION
New Delhi, the 13th February, 2020

S.O. 680(E). — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 18 of the Coal Mines
(Special Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of 2015) as amended by the Mineral Laws (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020
(1 of 2020), the Central Government hereby appoints Chairman, Coal India Ltd. as a designated custodian to
manage and operate Parbatpur-Central coal mine located in the State of Jharkhand.
 [F. No. CBA2-13016/1/2018-CBA2]
RAJESH KUMAR SINHA, Jt. Secy.
 878 GI/2020
Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054.

Page 76 of 255

73
File No.CBA2-13011/2/2020-CBA2-Part(2)

F.No.13011/2/2020-CBA2-Part (2)/P&S-II
Government of India

Ministry of Coal
RRKKKK
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi
Dated the 24th November, 2021
ORDER

Subject: Methodology for Auction of Coal Mines/Blocks for sale of coal under the Coal
Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 and the Mines and Minerals (Development and
Regulation) Act, 1957.

 The undersigned is directed to refer to Order dated 28.05.2020 (Copy enclosed) on the
subject mentioned above and to say that on the recommendation of Empowered Committee of
Secretaries, the Central Government has approved the following modification in the
methodology for auction of coal mines/blocks identified under the relevant Act for sale of
coal as mentioned in para 2 below:

2. The para 2.1.4 (b) of Order dated 28.05.2020 (Copy enclosed) on the subject mentioned
above shall stand modified as under:

Gasification or Liquefaction of coal: If the successful bidder consumes the coal
produced either in its own plant(s) or plant of its holding, subsidiary, affiliate, associate for
coal gasification or liquefaction or sells the coal for coal gasification or liquefaction process, a
rebate of 50% on the percentage revenue share quoted by the successful bidder will be
allowed on the total quantity of coal consumed or sold or both for gasification or liquefaction
on an yearly basis, subject to the following conditions:

(i) At least 10% of scheduled coal production as per approved mining plan for that year shall
be consumed or sold for gasification or liquefaction;
(ii) that Coal Controller’s certification would be required for the quantity of coal consumed or

sold or both for gasification or liquefaction.

 3. The aforesaid modification shall be applicable for ongoing and successive tranches of
auction for sale of coal.

 4. All other terms of Order dated 28.05.2020 shall remain the same.

 This issues with the approval of Competent Authority.

 Encl: As above

(Byasadev Naik)
Deputy Director (P&S-II)
Tel. 23070378
 To

(1) The Nominated Authority, Ministry of Coal
File No.CBA2-13011/2/2020-CBA2-Part(2)

(2) JS (P&S), Ministry of Coal

(3) Director (CLD), Ministry of Coal

Copy to:

. PS to Hon'ble Minister of Coal

. PSO to Secretary (Coal)

. PPS to AS (Coal)

. PPS to AS (MN) & NA

. PPS to JS (P&S)

. DS (NA)/DS (P&S-II/P&S-I)

. STD, NIC, Ministry of Coal......for uploading on the website of Ministry.

 NOU RWN EH

Signed by Byasadev Naik
Date: 24-11-2021 16:57:55
Reason: Approved
238
228824(12)/2020/CBA-II

F.No.13011/2/2020-CBA2-Part(2)
Government of India
Ministry of Coal
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi
202
Dated the oatMay, 020

ORDER

Subject: Methodology for Auction of Coal Mines/Blocks for sale of coal under the Coal
Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 and the Mines and Minerals (Development and
Regulation) Act, 1957.

 The undersigned is directed to refer to Rule 8 (2) and 8 (3) of the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Rules, 2014 read with Section 8 (5) of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act,
2015 and Rule 3(1) (d) of the Coal Blocks Allocation Rules, 2017 read with Section 11A of
the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 and to say that the
Competent Authority has approved the methodology for auction of coal mines/blocks
identified under the relevant Act for sale of coal as mentioned in para 2 below:

21 Methodology and other conditions for auction of coal mines for sale of coal:-

2.1.1 Applicability: It shall be applicable on auction of all fully explored coal blocks/mines
(categorised in G-1 exploration stage as per the modified Indian Standard Procedure for Coal
Resource estimation, 2017) and partially explored coal blocks/mines (categorised in G-2 or
G-3 exploration stage) for sale of coal under the CMSP Act and MMDR Act. The
Methodology and other conditions shall also be applicable on lignite blocks, mutatis
mutandis.

 2.1.2 Bid Parameter: The bid parameter will be revenue share for both fully explored coal
mines (categorised in G-1 exploration stage) and partially explored coal mines (categorised in
G-2 or G-3 exploration stage). The auction will be an ascending forward auction where the
bidders would be required to bid for a percentage share of revenue which would be payable to
the State Government. The floor percentage of revenue share shall be 4%. The bid increments
will be accepted in multiples of 0.5 % of revenue share till the percentage (%) of revenue
share reaches 10% and thereafter, bid increments will be accepted in multiples of 0.25% of
revenue share. The bidder that submits the highest percentage (%) of revenue share in the
bidding shall be declared the preferred bidder.

 2.1.3 Revenue share payable:

(A) The successful bidder shall be required to pay revenue share on monthly basis which
shall be determined as product of:

(i) percentage (%) of revenue share (final bid) quoted by the successful bidder;

(ii) total quantity of coal on which the statutory royalty is payable during the month; and
(iii) notional price or actual price, whichever is higher, where

XQ Page 1 of 5
239
228824(12)/2020/CBA-II
(a) ‘notional price’ refers to the price arrived at after adjusting the representative price with
sub-index of NCI of relevant basket of coal grade(s) on the date on which royalty becomes
payable, where ‘representative price’ is product of-

(1) weights (volume of coal in different components of notified price, auction price and
imported price channels) of base year, and
(2) prices of these components at the time of issuance of tender, and

(b) ‘actual price’ refers to the sale invoice value of coal, net of statutory dues including taxes,
levies, royalty, NMET, DMF, etc.

 (B) In addition to revenue share, other statutory dues including taxes, levies, royalty, NMET,
DMF, etc. shall be payable under applicable laws.

 2.1.4 Incentives in revenue sharing model in certain events:
The successful bidder shall be provided with incentives in the following events:
(a) Early production:

(i) In case of fully explored blocks, a rebate of 50% on revenue share quoted by the
successful bidder would be allowed, till the scheduled date of production as per the
production schedule given in the tender document, for the quantity of coal produced earlier
than such scheduled date of production.

 (ii) In case of partially explored blocks, a rebate of 50% on revenue share quoted by
successful bidder would be allowed, till the scheduled date of production, for the quantity of
coal produced earlier than the scheduled date of production given in the approved mining
plan.

 (iii) Statutory dues including taxes, levies, royalty, NMET, DMF, etc. shall be payable as per
law. No exemption would be given to the successful bidder from obtaining any approval etc.
under applicable laws required for start of production.

 (b) Gasification or Liquefaction of coal: If the successful bidder consumes the coal
produced either in its own plant(s) or plant of its holding, subsidiary, affiliate, associate for
coal gasification or liquefaction or sells the coal for coal gasification or liquefaction process,
a rebate of 20% on the percentage revenue share quoted by the successful bidder will be
allowed on the total quantity of coal consumed or sold or both for gasification or liquefaction
on an yearly basis, subject to the following conditions:

(i) At least 10% of scheduled coal production as per approved mining plan for that year shall
be consumed or sold for gasification or liquefaction;

(ii) that Coal Controller’s certification would be required for the quantity of coal consumed or
sold or both for gasification or liquefaction.

 (c) Empowered Committee of Secretaries may review and determine the incentives on
revenue share from time to time.

 2.1.5 Upfront Amount:

(A) The Upfront Amount shall be calculated at 0.25% of the value of estimated geological
reserves of the coal mine. Value of estimated geological reserves shall be equal to the product

of the following:
XID Page 2 of 5

240
228824(12)/2020/CBA-II

(i) estimated quantity of geological reserves in the coal mine, and
(ii) the representative price of relevant grade(s) of coal referred in para 2.1.3
(A)(iii)(a) above.

 However, the upfront amount payable shall be as per actual calculation as per above method
or as per ceiling mentioned here below, whichever is lower:-

Geological Reserves in mine (MT) Upper ceiling of Upfront Amount
(Rs. cr)

 Upto 200 100

Above 200 500

(B) The ceilings are calculated as per prevalent market conditions and the same is liable to be
revised in case there is substantial upward/downward change in market conditions by
Empowered Committee of Secretaries.

 (C) The Successful Bidder shall have the option to get the Upfront Amount adjusted against
the revenue share payable subject to the condition that such adjustment of upfront amount
shall not exceed 50% of the revenue share payable in the year.

 (D) The Upfront Amount shall be payable by the successful bidder in 4 equal installments as
provided in the tender document.

 2.1.6 Sale and/or Utilisation of Coal

There shall be no restriction on the sale and/ or utilisation of coal from the coal mine. The
successful bidder shall be free to sell coal in any manner as may be decided by the successful
bidder including sale to affiliates and related parties, utilise coal for any purpose including
but not limited to captive consumption, gasification, liquefaction and export of coal.

 2.1.7 Flexibility in Coal Production

(A) The successful bidder shall produce coal not below 65% of the scheduled production as
per approved mine plan in a year subject to the condition that the successful bidder shall not
produce coal less than 75% of the scheduled production as per approved mine plan in any
block of three years. The three-year block shall be counted from the first financial year of
scheduled commencement of production in the coal mine.

 (B) Revenue share payable to the Government in case of shortfall in coal production in
a financial year:

(i) In the event the annual coal production is less than 65% of the scheduled production in
any financial year, the successful bidder shall be required to pay the revenue share (for both,
coal produced and shortfall) so that the total revenue share paid is equal to 65% of scheduled
coal production for that financial year.

 (ii) In such cases, the annual revenue share payable for the shortfall quantity (65% of
scheduled coal production Jess the quantity of coal on which the statutory royalty is paid)
shall be computed on the basis of notional price.

 (C) Revenue share payable to the Government in case of shortfall in coal production in
a block of three financial years:

(i) Further, in event the coal production in a block of three financial years is less than 75% of
the scheduled production for that block, the successful bidder shall be required to pay the
revenue share (for both, coal produced and shortfall) so that the total revenue share paid is
equal to 75% of scheduled coal production for that block of three financial years.

 “Rell —

Page 3 of 5
241
228824(12)/2020/CBA-II
(ii) In such cases, the revenue share payable for the shortfall quantity (75% of scheduled coal
production of three years Jess the quantity of coal on which the statutory royalty is paid in
three years) shall be computed on the basis of notional price.
 (D) However, statutory dues including taxes, levies, royalty, NMET, DMF, etc. shall be
payable as per the applicable law.

 2.1.8 Exploitation of Coal Bed Methane

 In case there is presence of coal bed methane (CBM) in the coal mine, the successful
bidder may also commercially exploit the CBM present in the mining lease area and shall
approach the Directorate General of Hydrocarbon (DGH) for its technical approval followed
by the grant of CBM mining lease by respective State Government. In addition to monthly
revenue share payable for coal, the successful bidder shall also make payments of monthly
revenue share for CBM based on same percentage revenue share quoted (final bid) by it
during auction of coal mine. Other mechanisms with regard to arriving at the price of CBM
shall be governed by the applicable Policy issued by M/o Petroleum and Natural Gas being
the administrative Ministry.

 2.1.9 Relinquishment of the block

A successful bidder of a partially explored coal block shall be permitted to relinquish
the coal block on meeting the conditions given in the tender documents.

 2.1.10 Other terms and conditions/ modalities of auction including eligibility criteria shall be
decided by the M/o Coal.

 2.1.11 Existing CCEA approved methodologies applicable on allotment of coal mines under
the CMSP Act shall be applicable on allotment of blocks under the MMDR Act.

 2.1.12 No limit on number of coal mines or reserves or any other parameter regarding
production of coal or any combination thereof that can be allocated to a company or its
affiliate company, associate company, holding company or subsidiary is to be imposed in the
first tranche of auction for sale of coal. Based on the learnings, suitable limits in subsequent
tranches of auction may be placed as per decision /recommendation of an Empowered
Committee of Secretaries.

 2.1.13 The CCEA approved methodology dated 27.02.2018 for auction of coal mines for sale
of coal shall stand modified to the extent covered in the proposal.

 2.2 A National Coal Index (NCI) along with its sub-indices of relevant basket of coal grades
shall be developed in accordance with 2nd report of High Power Expert Committee (HPEC)
with following modifications:

I. NCI shall be computed on bi-monthly basis.

 II. Bifurcation of the coking coal into two parts: Steel Grade, into which the price of the
imported component of coking coal would be included and second the Washery Grade
(consisting of W-1, 2, 3 and 4), in which there would be no import component. Rest
of the Coking Coal, ie. W-5 and W-6 may be treated as the corresponding Grade of
Non-Coking Coal.

III. Revenue Share Payable: As proposed in para 2.1.3 above.

 CA Page 4 of 5
; 242
228824(12)/2020/CBA-II
2.3 With the approval of Competent Authority, an Empowered Committee of Secretaries has
been constituted vide OM of even number dated 28.05.2020 to deliberate and decide/
recommend on the miscellaneous terms and conditions for successive rounds of auction and

also on the operationalisation aspects of coal mines as detailed in the OM dated 28.05.2020
referred to in this para.

 2.4 Increasing the tenure of coking coal linkage

The coking coal linkage in the non-regulated sector linkage auction may be granted
for a tenure upto 30 years.

 This issues with the approval of Competent Authority.

(Rishan Ryhtathiang)
 Under Secretary to the Govt. of India
Tel. 23384104
 To
(1) The Nominated Authority, Ministry of Coal
(2) JS (BPP), Ministry of Coal: For appropriate necessary action in respect of auction of
coal mines under the relevant provisions of the MMDR Act, 1957 and Rules made

there under.

 (3) Director (CLD), Ministry of Coal

Copy to:
1. PS to Hon'ble Minister of Coal
2. PSO to Secretary (Coal)
3. PPS to AS (Coal)
4. PPS to JS (MN)/ PPS to JS (RKS)/PS to JS (BPP)
5. DS (NA)/DS (CBA-ID/DS(CBA-I)
6. STD, NIC, Ministry of Coal......for uploading on the website of Ministry.

 Page 5 of 5
No. PS1-12012/3/2021-PS1 (FTS-348218)
URd UPR/GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
laa AATAS/MINISTRY OF COAL

th Us US-I ATUMTPS-1 Section

feat 01 TFAX, 2022
orett waa, Te feeeft-110001

NOTICE

Subject: Amendment in Colliery Control Rules, 2004 - Stakeholders
consultation - regarding.

 In exercise of its power under Section 26 (3) of MMDR Act, 1957, the
Central Government proposes to amend the Colliery Control Rules, 2004 (‘CCR)
and delegate certain powers to the State Government as per the proposed
amendment which is enclosed as Annexure. Further, with the amendment in
CCR, the notification S.O. 645 dated 24 March, 2016 shall rescind.

 2. In this connection, further to the earlier notice dated 25.07.2022,
comments of stakeholders and coal and lignite bearing State Governments are
invited to the proposed revised amendment in Colliery Control Rules, 2004 on the
email id rishan.r75@nic.in on or before 30 days (by 30.11.2022) from date of
issue of this notice.

 Encl. : As stated above.

(Rishan Ryntathiang)

Under Secretary to the Govt. of India
Tel. No.23073936

e-mail : rishan.r75@nic.in

163

. PS to Hon’ble Minister of Coal

. PS to Hon’ble MoS (Coal)

. PPS to Secretary (Coal)

. PS to AS (Coal) /AS&NA

. JS(BPP) / JS(VT) /JS&FA

. Economic Advisor/ Advisor (Projects)

. All Directors/DS/US/SO

. Chief Secretaries of all Coal/Lignite bearing States and UTs

_ Sr. T.D, NIC, Ministry of Coal - for uploading on website of Ministry of Coal

OANDUAWNE
 [To be published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3,
Subsection (i)]

MINISTRY OF COAL
NOTIFICATION

New Delhi, the , 2022

GSR (E): In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (1) and (2) of section
18 red with sub- section (3) of section 26 of the Mines and Minerals (Development
and Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957), the Central Government hereby makes
the following rules to amend the Colliery Control Rules, 2004, namely: —

1. Short title and commencement. — (1) These rules may be called the Colliery
Control (Amendment) Rules, 2022.

 (2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official
Gazette.

 2. In the Colliery Control Rules, 2004, (hereinafter referred to as principal rules),
for rule 15, following shall be substituted namely —

“15. Delegation of powers. — (1) The powers of Central Government under
rule 6, 9 and 11 may be delegated by notification in Official Gazette to the
Coal Controller.

 (2) Where any State Government has consented in writing for exercising the
powers specified under sub-rule (3), (4) and (5) of rule 4, rule 5, 7, 10 and
12, the Central Government may delegate the said powers to the said State
Government by a notification in Official Gazette in re spect of coal mines
except the mines or blocks of Central Government Public Sector
Undertaking.”.

 F. No. PS1-12012/3/2021-PS1
M. Nagaraju, Additional Secretary

Note: The principle rules were published in Gazette of India, extraordinary under
part II, Section 3, Sub- Section (i) vide GSR 540 dated the 25th August 2004 and
was last amended vide GSR 540 dated the 9* August 202
F. No. 34011/28/2019-CPAM
Government of India
Ministry of Coal
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi
The ag? May 2020

Office Memorandum

Approval and Revision of Mining plan for the coal and lignite blocks.

 Undersigned is directed to state that the guidelines for formulation of Mining plan and
Mine Closure Plan has been amended. It has been decided by the Government that all coal
(including lignite) mining operations in India shall henceforth be governed as per modified
guidelines enumerated below.

 Mining Plan: All coal (including Lignite) mining operation in India shall henceforth be
governed as per these modified guidelines listed below and henceforth, the Mine Closure Plan
and Final Mine Closure Plan shall be integral part of Mining Plan. Separate approval of Mine
Closure Plan/ Final Closure Plan has been done away with. The Guideline/format for
formulation of Mining plan is enumerated at Appendix — I.

Implementation of the approved Mining Plans shall be sole responsibility of the mine
owner. Mining operations shall be undertaken in accordance with the duly approved mining
plan. The mining plan once approved shall be valid for the balance life of the Mine, provided
that any modification(s) of the mining plan is approved by the competent authority and such
approval of the modified mining plan shall remain valid for the estimate balance life of the
mining plan. Modification of the approved mining plan during the operation of a mining lease
also requires prior approval.

 The mining plan shall cover prescription for different phases of life of the mine as stage plan.
 The Stage plan for Ist year, 3rd year, Sth year, year of achieving rated capacity of the mine,
Final year (i.e. at the end of mine life) and post closure shall be submitted at the time of initial
submission of mining plan. The project proponent shall submit a report/information consisting
a. compliance status with respect to approval condition of mining plan and grounds specified at
para 1.3A; b. stage plan for next five years; ¢. revised balance life of the mine; and d. revised
calculation of ESCROW amount with respect to revised balance life, to Coal Controller, cco,
Kolkata with a copy of the same to Administrative Section dealing with the allocation/allotment
of the block and section dealing with approval of mining plan at MoC/CCO, for information,
Such report/information must be submitted at least 180(one hundred eighty) days before the
expiry of 5 (five) year, starting from the commencement of the Mineral Concession
(Amendment) Rules, 2020 or the date of execution of the duly executed mining lease deed,
whichever is later. Information desired above must bear certificate of Qualified Person/
Accredited Mining Plan preparing Agency and have approval of the respective company
board. Non submission of such information during the stipulated time may result in withdrawal
of mine opening permission or cancellation of the approved mining plan, as may be decided by
cco.

 The Mining Plan approved prior to issue of this Guideline will qualify for submission of such
report/information at least 180(one hundred eighty) days prior to expiry of 5 (five) year from the
date of notification of the Mineral Concession Amendment Rules 2020.

 1.3.(A) The mining plan may be modified for a. for change in method of mining; b. for facilitating

increase in sanctioned peak capacity that is in excess of one hundred and fifty per cent of the

Cc) Page 1 of 39

E
1.10.

 sanctioned rated capacity; ¢. change in leased area; d. in the interest of safe and scientific
mining; e. conservation of minerals; f. for the protection of environment; g. addition of reserve
by way of proving of reserve in the existing lease area: h. for changes in final mine closure
conditions; or i, and such other change that may be determined by the Central Government.
 While submission of revision/ modification of mining plan the reason for revision/ modification
shall be specified in writing by the lessee.

 (B) Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (A) above, for other minor changes, the project

proponent is empowered to make modification with the approval of the respective company
board. These minor changes shall cover a. changes in land type within the leased area; b. changes
in HEMM deployment plan; and e. changes in location of infrastructure within the leased area.
 The project proponent shall submit specific report of such minor changes to Coal Controller,
CCO, Kolkata with a copy of the same to Administrative Section dealing with the
allocation/allotment of the block and section dealing with approval of mining plan at MoC/CCO,
for information.

 The Mining Plan submitted for approval shall have prior approval of the concerned Board of the
Company.

 The base date of the Mining Plan should be taken as cut-off date on which the extractable
reserve, balance life etc. has been quantified.

 The proposed leased area in the Mining Plan shall include the area specified in the mining lease
within which mining operations can be undertaken and includes the non-mineralized area
required and approved for the activities falling under the definition of mine as referred in The
Mines Act 1952.Evacuation route, R&R and Employee Township area outside the block will not
be part of the Mining plan.

 Pre-mining land ownership/land type furnished in the mining plan will be of indicative in nature
along with data source at its footnote (viz. from topo sheet, cadastral plan etc.).

 The excavation/ mining area envisages in the mining plan must be restricted within the
allotted/vested geological block boundary/existing mining lease and if the project area is
confined within the allotted block boundary/existing mining lease, a certificate to this effect is to
be provided by the Qualified Person/ Accredited Mining Plan preparing Agency preparing
the mining plan. The certificate must be made on the Conceptual Plan depicting Cardinal Point
Co-ordinates (shape co-ordinates) of the project boundary, Lease boundary and Geological
Block boundary (binding co-ordinates given in the vesting order).

 Under provisions of Rule 16 of MCR 1960, State Government is custodian of the exploration
data. As such in the cases, where the project area extends beyond the block boundary/existing
mining lease the Mines and Geology Department of the concerned State Government shall issue
a certificate specifying (a) intent of the State Government for grant of lease beyond the vested
geological boundary; (b) non-existence of coal/ lignite in the area beyond the vested/allotted
geological block boundary/existing mining lease to rule out the issue of encroachment. The
application for issue of certificate from the Mines and Geology Department of the State
Government must be supported with proof of the non-existence of coal/lignite in the area under
reference (along with their Cardinal Point coordinates) duly certified by custodian agency viz.
 CMPDIL/ SCCL in case of coal and NLCIL in case of lignite.

 Where the project area extends beyond the block boundary/existing mining lease, the certificate
issued by the Mines and Geology Department of the concerned State Government must be
attached in the Mining Plan.

 In case of allotted/auctioned coal/lignite blocks, the mining plan may be revised for extraction of
more coal on year to year basis.

 Provided that the mining plan shall be revised for extraction of less coal on year on year basis only under
following circumstances: a. if the remaining extractable reserve of the coal mine is less than

'® Page 2 of 39

re
Il;

1.13;

2:1,

2.2,

23:

3(three) times of the rated Capacity of the current Approved Mining Plan; b. Change in method
of mining from Opencast to Underground necessitated due to change in geo-mining conditions.
 However, revision of Mining Plan for extraction of less coal would be subject to prior approval
of the Nominated Authority.

 The approval of the revised Mining Plan shall not result in changes in the terms and conditions
or efficiency parameters mentioned in the CMDPA/Allotment Agreement signed at the time of
allotment/vesting for the auctioned/allotted blocks without prior approval of the nominated
authority or Central Government, as the case may be. However, efficiency parameters mentioned
in the CMDPA/Allotment Agreement shall be linked to the rated capacity of the mine.

 The project proponent shall envisage the action plan for exploration and liquidation of the
balance reserve yet to be projectised.

 The project proponent shall take all necessary precautions regarding safety of mine workings and
persons deployed therein and shall adhere to all the statutory clearances with regards to safety.

 Proposed project area envisaged in the mining plan shall not encroach into any other adjacent
coal block unless permitted to do so by the Ministry of Coal in writing.

 The approval of the Mining Plan is without prejudice to the requirement of approvals from
competent /prescribed authority under the relevant rules/ regulations etc.

 The project proponent shall submit an undertaking that the mine shall be operated as per the
Environment Clearance (EC) & Forestry Clearance (FC) for the project.

 Statutory Obligation: The legal obligations, if any, which the lessee is bound to implement, like
special conditions imposed while execution of lease deed, approval of Mining Plan, conditions
imposed by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF&CC), Central
Pollution Control Board (CPCB),State Pollution Control Board (SPCB), Directorate General of
Mines Safety (DGMS) or any other organizations describing the nature of conditions and
compliance positions thereof, should be indicated in the Mining Plan.

 Mine closure Plans: Mine Closure Plans will have two components viz. i) Progressive or
Concurrent Mine Closure Plan, and ii) Final Mine Closure Plan. Progressive Mine Closure Plan
would include various land use activities to be done continuously and sequentially during the
entire period of the mining operations, whereas the Final Mine Closure activities would start
towards the end of mine life, and may continue even after the reserves are exhausted and/or
mining is discontinued till the mining area is restored to an acceptable level. The Mine closure
details of the Mining Plan should be oriented towards the restoration of land back to its original
as far as practicable or further improved condition.

 Mining is to be carried out in a phased manner along with reclamation and afforestation work in
the mined-out area.

 Progressive mine closure plan shall be prepared for a period of every five years from the
beginning of the mining operations. These plans would be examined periodically in every five
years period and to be subjected to third party monitoring by the agencies approved by the
Central Government, like Central Mine Planning and Design Institute Ltd. (CMPDIL), National
Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), Indian Institute of Technology (IIT-
ISM) or any other institutes/ organizations/ agencies specified from time to time for the purpose.

 Various project specific activities viz. mined-out land details & their tech nical and biological
restoration plan, water quality management, infrastructure to be retained and demolished,
disposal of mining machinery, etc. shall be furnished in the relevant paras. Where the backfilling
of the mine void is being carried out as part of regular mining operation, it shall not be included
in the list of progressive mine closure activities. However, in case, where the backfilling of mine
void is to be carried out specifically for closure of the mine, quantum of such overburden and the
mine closure fund earmarked for the purpose must be included in the list of activities to be taken
up for mine closure in the mining plan at the time of submission itself.

 2 Page 3 of 39
2.4.

2.50

2:6:

Dal.

2.8.

 The Government may at any time before the closure of mine require certain activities to be
included in the mine closure plans, which it may consider necessary for the safety and
conservation of environment, or in compliance with any modification’ amendment in the relevant
legislation.

 Abandonment cost: The total cost for carrying out such activities shall be estimated for
assessment of abandonment cost of the mine involving progressive and final mine closure
activities such as barbed wire fencing all around the working area, dismantling of
structures/demolition and cleaning of sites, rehabilitation of mining machinery, plantation,
physical/biological reclamation, landscaping, biological reclamation of left-out overburden
dump, filling up of de-coaled void, post environmental monitoring, supervision charges, power
cost, protective and rehabilitation measures including their maintenance and monitoring,
miscellaneous charges etc. for the specified post closure period.

 Escrow Account Calculation: In August 2009 it was estimated that typically closure cost for an
opencast mine was around rupees six lakhs per hectare of the total project area and rupees one
lakh per hectare for underground project area at the-then price level. Accordingly vide letter
dated 7" January 2013 a guideline for mine closure was issued which needed modification in
these rates based on the wholesale price index (WPI) as notified by Government of India from
time to time while preparing the Mining plan and Mine Closure Plan. The escalated rate (based
on the current base year i.e. 01.04.2019) is Rupees Nine Lakh per hectare in opencast and
Rupees one lakh fifty thousand per hectare for underground Mine. These rates will be considered
as Base Rate to be applicable from 01.04.2019, which may change as specified from time to time
by the Government of India.

 [Exemplary Calculation: {(Rs 6 lakhs x 1.561 linking factor for base year 2004-05 x WPI 121.1
as on April 2019) / (WPI as on August 2009)} = Rupees 8.75 lakh, rounded to Rupees 9 (nine)
lakhs per hectare in case of Opencast project.

 Henceforth, these rates will stand modified based on the wholesale price index (WPI) as notified
by Government of India from time to time, Annual closure cost is to be computed considering
the total project area of the mine multiplied by escalated rate (at the above mentioned rates) and
dividing the same by the balance life of the mine in years. An amount equal to the annual cost is
to be deposited each year throughout the mine life compounded @5% annually.

 [For example if the annual cost works out to Rs 100, then in the first year the amount to be
deposited will be Rs 100, in the second year 100x(1+5%)1, in the third year 100x(1+5%)*2 and
so on.]

 Further, in case of the mine, where escrow account is already open, the annual closure cost is to
be computed considering the total project area at the above mentioned rates minus the amount
already deposited and dividing the same by the balance life of the mine in years and annual cost
as arrived should be compounded @5% annually.

 Financial Assurance: The Mining Company/ Mine Owner as a part of Financial Assurance will
open a Fixed Deposit Escrow account, with the Coal Controller Organization (on behalf of the
Central Government) as exclusive beneficiary prior to commencement of any activities on the
land/project area of the mine and shall submit the same to Coal Controller Organization (CCO)
before the permission is given for opening the mine. The mining company shall cause the
payment to be deposited at the rate computed as indicated at Para 2.6. The owner of the company
may select the Schedule Bank where the Escrow account is to be opened and inform the same to
the Coal Controller, CCO, Kolkata.

 Coal Controller, Kolkata shall get the WPI (used for escalation of closure cost at the time of
formulation of Mining plan) updated, at the time of opening of Escrow account. The mine
owner/ company including all public/ private sector companies shall deposit the yearly amount in
a Schedule Bank in accordance with Para 2.6. Coal Controller, Kolkata shall also get the

e Page 4 of 39

_
29;

210;

2.12)

2:13;

information, submitted under to para 1.2, verified and get the yearly closure cost modified
with respect to the latest WPI in accordance with para 2.6.

 Final Mine Closure: The details of the Mining Plan (covering Final Mine Closure Plan
envisaging the details of the updated cost estimates for various mine closure activities and the
Escrow Account already set up, shall be submitted to the approving authority for approval at
least five years before the intended final closure of the mine.

 Final Mine Closure would be considered to be completed only after acceptance of the third-party
audit report by the Coal Controller on the compliance of all provisions of Mine Closure Plan.
 Any Institute/ Organization/Agency as may be specified by the Government for this purpose may
be engaged for Third Party audit to create a self-sustained ecosystem. Failure of restoration
within the specified period may result in forfeiture of Escrow Account created as per Para 2.6&
2.7. The details of the Final Mine Closure Plan along with the details of the updated cost
estimate for various mine closure activities and escrow account already set up shall be submitted
at the time of approval of final mine closure plan.

 Time Scheduling for abandonment: The Action plan for carrying out all abandonment
operations (progressive and final mine closure) should be furnished in the form of bar chart for a
period of life of the mine plus post closure period. Post closure period shall be taken as3 (three)
years for Underground mines and Opencast mines having stripping ratio lesser than 6(six)
MM*/Te & 5 (five) years for mines having stripping ratio more than 6(six) MM?/Te.

 Implementation of the approved Mine Closure Plan shall be sole responsibility of the mine
owner. Mining is to be carried out in a phased manner i.e. continuation of mining activities from
one phase to other indicating the sequence of operations depending on the geo-mining conditions
of the mine. Up to 50% of the total deposited amount including interest accrued in the ESCROW
account may be released after every five years in line with the periodic examination of the
Closure Plan as per Para 2.2. The amount released should be equal to expenditure incurred on the
progressive mine closure in past five years or 50% whichever is less. The balance amount shall
be released to mine owner/leaseholder at the end of the final Mine Closure on compliance of all
provisions of Closure Plan. This compliance report should be duly signed by the lessee and
certify that said closure of mine complied all statutory rules, regulations, orders made by the
Central or State Government, statutory organisations, court etc. and certified by the Coal
Controller.

 Responsibility of the mine owner: It is the responsibility of the mine owner to ensure that the
protective measures contained in the mine closure plan including reclamation and rehabilitation
works have been carried out in accordance with the approved mine closure plan and final mine
closure plan.

 The owner shall submit to the Coal Controller a yearly report before Ist July of every year
setting forth the extent of protective and rehabilitative works carried cut as envisaged in the
approved mine closure plans (Progressive and Final Closure Plans).

 The money to be provided per hectare of total Project Area for the purpose is to be deposited
every year on commencement of any development activity on the land for the mine after opening
a Fixed Deposit Escrow Account prior to obtaining mine opening permission from Coal
Controller. Mining company/owners including all Public Sector Undertakings shall deposit the
yearly amount in a Scheduled Bank. If the Mine owners fail to deposit the required annual
amount in accordance with Para 2.6, 2.7 & 2.8, the Government can withdraw the mining
permission.

 The funds so generated are towards the security to cover the cost of closure in case the mine
owner fails to complete the relevant closure activities. The prime responsibility of mine closure
shall always lie with the mine owner, and in case these funds are found to be insufficient to cover
the cost of final mine closure including the areas covered in Para 2.3 2.6, 2.7, 2.8 & 2.9 above.
 The mine owner shall undertake to provide the additional fund equivalent to the gap in

Zé Page 5 of 39

—
2,17,

2.18.

2.19)

Bil.

3:2.

3.35

3.5%

4.2

funding before five years of Mine Closure failing which it may be recovered by such other
methods as the competent authority may deem fit in this regard.

 Final Closure Certificate: The Mine owner shall be required to obtain a mine closure certificate
from Coal Controller to the effect the protective, reclamation, and rehabilitation work in
accordance with the approved Mining plan covering final mine closure provisions/activities
have been carried out by the mine owner for surrendering the reclaimed land to the State
Government.

 The balance amount at the end of the final Mine Closure shall be released to mine owner on
compliance of all provisions of Closure Plan duly signed by the mine owner to the effect that
said closure of mine complied with all statutory rules, regulations, orders made by the Central or
State Government, statutory organizations, court etc. and duly certified by the Coal Controller.
 This should also indicate the estimated extractable coal reserves and coal actually mined out.

 If the Coal Controller has reasonable grounds for believing that the protective, reclamation and
rehabilitation measures as envisaged in the approved mine closure plan in respect of which
financial assurance was given has not been or will not be carried out in accordance with mine
closure plan, either fully or partially, the Coal controller shall give the mine owner a written
notice of his intention to issue the orders for forfeiting the sum assured at least thirty days prior
to the date of the order to be issued after giving an opportunity to be heard.

 Formulation of Mining Plan by Qualified Person (QP) or Accredited Mining
Plan Preparing Agency (MPPA):

System of granting Recognition to a person for preparation of mining plan u/s 22C of MCR 1960
& preparation of mining plan only by RQP u/s 22B of MCR 1960 shall be done away with, after
commencement of the Mineral Concessions (Amendment) Rules, 2020.

 After commencement of Mineral Concession (Amendment) Rule 2020, no mining plan shall be
accepted unless it is prepared by Qualified Person (QP) or Accredited Mining Plan Preparing
Agency (MPPA).

 Quality Council of India (QCI) or National Accreditation Board for Education and Training
(NABET) shall be engaged for accrediting following entitie s:

(i) Accredited Prospecting Agency (APA) for undertaking prospecting operations and
preparation of geological reports for Coal and Lignite Mines, and

(ii) Mining Plan Preparing Agency (MPPA) for preparation of mining plan (for Coal, Lignite
Mines and Sand for Stowing)

 The Quality Council of India (QCI) or National Accreditation Board for Education and Training
(NABET)shall grant accreditation in accordance with such standards and procedures as specified
in schedule VI of Mineral Concession (Amendment) Rule 2020.

 Qualified Agency (QP) or Mining Plan Preparing Agency (MPPA) who prepares mining plan for
a block/mine, shall have recognition from the concerned company board that the qualification of
the QP or accreditation of the MPPA has been duly verified and is in line with the relevant
provision of the MCR 1960.

 Submission, Processing and Scrutiny of Mining Plan

On and from the date of publication of order and upto the expiry of eriod of nine months
 from_the_ commencement of the Mineral Concession Amendment) Rules, 2020, every
mining plan submitted for approval/modification shall be accompanied with a non-refundable
application fee specified from time to time in this regard, for the project area specified in the
mining plan.

 Qn and from the expiry of period of nine months from the commencement of the Mineral

Concession (Amendment) Rules, 2020, every mining plan submitted for approval/modification

Page 6 of 39
43

44

4.4.1
4.4.1.1

4.4.1.2

4.4.1.3

4.4.1.4

4.4.2
4.4.2.1
4.4.2.2

4.4.2.3

4.4.2.4

4.4.2.5

shall be accompanied with a non-refundable application fee specified from time to time in this
regard, for the project area specified in the mining plan and peer/expert review done by any
accredited mining plan preparing or reviewing agency at their (applicant’s) own cost. During
examination of the Mining Plan by the internal committee of Mo, if it is felt that a review by
expert or by specialized agency is required, the committee may recommend referring the mining
plan to such expert/agency with the approval of the MP approving authority. Charges for the
expert review shall be borne by the applicant.

 All pages (including cover page, plates and Annexures) shall bear the signature & stamp
furnishing details of the QP/Accredited Mining Plan preparing Agency (MPPA) in physical
mode of submission and e-signature/digital signature during the online system of submission.

 Ministry of Coal is in process of development of on-line portal for submission and approval of
mining plan. system of acceptance of Physical copy shall be continued till the
development/operationalization of online portal for submission and approval of mining plan.

 Submission to Physical Copy Mining Plan to Ministry of Coal:

The project proponent shall submit one soft copy and four hard copies of Mining Plan (draft)-
one each to the concerned Administrative Section of the Ministry of Coal for the concerned
block, Section of MoC/CCO dealing with approval of Mining plan, Coal Controller, CMPDIL/
Extended office of CCO & the dispatch receipt of the speed post (confirming that the draft
Mining Plan has been sent).The contact details and correspondence address of the section
dealing with the approval of Mining plan, administrative section for the mine, members of the
committee etc. shall be updated time to time, on the website of the Ministry of Coal/Coal
Controller Organisation.

 The project proponent shall incorporate the observation (if any) and submit the mining plan
(after incorporating the compliance to the observation) to section of MoC/CCO dealing with
approval of Mining plan, concerned administrative section of the Ministry of Coal, Coal
Controller and CMPDIL/ Extended office of CCO.

 Submission of Mining Plan (after incorporating compliance) to Ministry of Coal: The
project proponent shall submit 04 (Four) hard copies & 01 (one) soft copy of modified Mining
Plan and the compliance to the observations along with copy of the dispatch receipt of the Speed
Post (confirming that the modified Mining Plan has been sent to section of MoC/ CCO dealing
with approval of Mining Plan, concerned administrative section of the Ministry of Coal, Coal
Controller, and CMPDIL/ Extended office of CCQ);

 The procedure of submission at Para 4.3.1 will be replaced by process of submission at para
4.3.2 on development of portal for online submission and approval of Mining Plan.

 Online System of Submission of Mining Plan for Approval:

Project proponent shall register online, using registered official mail ID.

 For the purpose of preparation of Mining plan through a QP or MPPA, project proponent shall

share a temporary login with QP/MPPA. This temporary login shall be valid till the preparation
and approval of mining plan only.

 The QP/MPPA shall upload the Mining plan through the temporary login and submit it to the
project proponent; QP/MPPA once submits the mining plan to the project proponent, he shall not
be able to modify.

 The Project Proponent shall make payment of processing charges/fees online as specified from
time to time by Ministry of Coal;

The Project Proponent shall after incorporating relevant company board approvals submit the
mining plan to the Approving Authority; The mining plan submitted to approving authority shall
become visible to Administrative Section for the respective block, section of MoC/CCO dealing

3 Page 7 of 39

=
a1S

with approval of Mining plan, members of the Internal Committee, Coal Controller, CMPDIL/
Extended office of CCO, simultaneously. System of SMS alerts shall be available at all stages;

Observations of the Committee Members shall be uploaded online and the project proponent shall
also submit Mining Plan, after incorporating compliance, online

Scrutiny & Processing of Mining Plan

 The current system of getting the mining plan scrutinized through CMPDI, Ranchi shall continue.
 Ministry of Coal is in process of creating an extended office of Coal Controller Organization at Delhi
which shall be delegated with the work of processing and scrutiny of mining Plan. A letter to this
effect shall be issued separately,

CMPDIL/Extended office of CCO at Delhi shall scrutinize the mining plan and submit comments to
section of MoC/CCO dealing with approval of Mining plan within Fifteen (15) days of receipt of the
Mining Plan. Non-submission of comments within the stipulated time may be presumed as “no
comment” from CMPDIL/Extended office of CCO; CMPDIL/ Extended office of CCO at Delhi, if
consider necessary to make a physical verification of the site/site visit for scrutiny of the mining
plan, may make such site visit/physical verification of the site, however, no relaxation in the time
line as specified above may be given.

 Administrative Section of the Ministry of Coal (dealing with the block) shall scrutinize the mining
plan with respect to Vesting order/ allotment order and CMDPA signed with allottee at the time of
allotment and submit observations to section of MoC/CCO dealing with approval of Mining plan (till
the development of portal for Mining plan approval) within Fifteen (15) days of receipt of the Mining
Plan. Non-submission of comments within the stipulated time may be presumed as “no comment”
from the administrative section;

Members of the Internal Committee shall examine the mining plan from Technical and
administrative angle based on the observations of the Administrative Section (dealing with the
respective block) and CMPDIL/Extended office of CCO and the peer/expert review report submitted
with the mining plan and submit observations to section of MoC/CCO dealing with approval of
Mining plan (till the development of portal for Mining plan approval) within Fifteen (15) days of
receipt of the Mining Plan. Non-submission of comments within the stipulated time may be
presumed as “no comment” from the administrative section. Members of the internal committee,
CMPDIL/Extended office of CCO may raise observation twice only. The observation raised shall be
communicated directly to the project proponent for incorporating the same in the mining plan. The
project proponent shall make presentation in the meeting of the internal committee for scrutiny.

Section of MoC/CCO dealing with approval of Mining plan shall communicate the observation (if
any) to the project proponent for compliance till the development of online system for submission,
processing, and approval of mining plan.

 Subsequent, to development of online portal for submission, processing, and approval the
observations of the internal committee members shall be uploaded directly on the portal, which will
be visible to the project proponent. A timeline of 15 days shall be available for the internal
committee members to upload the comments. Non-submission of comments within the stipulated
time may be presumed as “no comment”.

 Timeline for submission of Compliance:

Once the observation of the Scrutiny of the mining plan is communicated either in hard copy, mail or
online, the Project Proponent is required to submit the mining plan after incorporating the
compliance to the observation within a period of 15 days of the communication, failing which the
mining plan submitted for approval shall be rejected.

 Provided that any such application may be entertained after the said period of 15 Days, if the
applicant satisfies the approving authority that he had sufficient cause for non-submission of mining
plan (after incorporating the compliance) in time. However, in any case this period may not be
extended beyond 30 days from the date of receipt of communication of the observation.

 é Page 8 of 39
bea
12;

73

7.4

8.2

8.3

8.4

Approving Authority:

On and from the date of publication of order and up to the expiry of period of nine months from
the commencement of the Mineral Concession (Amendment) Rules, 2020, the powers to approve
mining plan for all categories of coal and lignite mines and sand for stowing shall be exercisable
by Project Adviser, Ministry of Coal.

 On and from the expiry of period of nine months from the commencement of the Mineral
Concession (Amendment) Rules, 2020, the power to approve mining plan for all categories of
coal and lignite mines including sand for stowing shall be exercisable by the Coal Controller,
CCO, Kolkata, a subordinate office of Government of India in the Ministry of Coal.

 The person delegated to approval of Mining Plan under sub-section (1) of section 26 read with
clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 5 of the Mines and Minerals (Development and
Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957) (hereinafter, the ‘Act’) may seek help of an Internal
committee constituted for the purpose.

 The approving authority shall dispose of the application for approval of the Mining Plans within
a period of 30 days from the date of receiving of such application (The Mining Plan received on
or before 30th of Current Month will be considered in the ensuing meeting). Provided that the
aforesaid period of 30 days shall be applicable only if the Mining Plan is complete in all respect,
and in case of any modifications subsequently suggested after the initial submission of the
Mining Plan for approval, the said period shall be applicable from the date on which modified
mining plan is re-submitted.

 Internal Committee for Scrutiny of Mining Plan:

Members of the Internal Committee shall examine the mining plan from Technical and
administrative angle based on the observations of the Administrative Section dealing with the
respective block & CMPDIL/ Extended office of CCO.

 The internal committee shall recommend the mining plan for “Approval” or “Rejection”. In case
of recommendation for Rejection, the committee shall record the reason for Rejection.

 Till the opening of CCO office at Delhi, the internal committee shall consist of:
1. Director (Technical), MoC, Member Secretary

2. Director/ Deputy Secretary, MoC of the section dealing with the allocation/allotment of the
respective block, Member

3. Coal Controller or his representative, Member
4. Director level officer of CMPDIL, Member
5. Director/Deputy Secretary, Nominated Authority, Member
 After opening of CCO office at Delhi, the internal committee shall consist of:
1. Director level officer of CCO having relevant working experience., Member
2. Director/ Deputy Secretary of the section dealing with the respective block, Member

3. Head of Regional Coal Controller Office (having relevant working experience in mine
planning), CCO Regional Office New Delhi, Member Secretary

4. Any other technical person having working experience of not less than 15 (fifteen) years in
mine planning, Member

Communication of Approval:

 In case of allotted/auctioned mine, section dealing with approval of Mining Plan shall
communicate the decision of the approving authority within a period of 5 (five) working days in
form of a letter confirming “in-principle approval” of the Mining Plan to the project proponent

& Page 9 of 39

-
92

10
10.1

10.2

11

with a copy of the same to the Nominated Authority, Govt. of India. Final approval of the
Mining Plan in such cases shall be communicated by the section dealing with approval of Mining
Plan, only on receipt of applicable payments and its confirmation from the Nominated Authority,
Govt. of India.

 While for mines other than auctioned/allotted mines, section dealing with approval of Mining
Plan shall communicate the decision of the approving authority within a period of 5 working
days.

 Revision:

Any person aggrieved by any order made or direction issued in respect of mining plan by an
officer competent to approval mining plans shall within 30 days of the communication of such
order or direction, apply to the Secretary (Coal), Ministry of Coal for a revision of such order or
direction thereon.

 On receipt of any application for revision the authority shall give the aggrieved person a
reasonable opportunity of being heard and may within 30 days confirm, modify or set aside the
order or direction and his decision thereon shall be final.

 This Guideline supersedes the previous orders and are without any prejudice to any other
relevant rules and regulations, such as those issued by the State Governments, Ministry of
Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Ministry of Labour and Employment, etc.

iit

_—

(Hitlar Singh)
Under Secretary to the Government of India
To,

All the existing Coal and Lignite block allocates

Copy to: -

. All Joint Secretaries, MoC.

. Coal Controller, Coal Controller's Office, 1- Council House Street, Kolkata.

. CMD, CIL, Newtown, Rajarhat, Kolkata-700156, W.B

. CMD, NLCIL, Cuddlore, Distt. Neyveli- 607801 (Tamil Nadu).

. CMD, Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL), Kothagudem Collieries, Khammam
Distt.(A.P).

 6. Tech. Director (NIC) - with the request to place it to Website of the Ministry of Coal.

 A PWN —

Page 10 of 39
Appendix- I

DETAILS TO BE FURNISHED IN THE MINING PLANS FOR COAL/LIGNITE BLOCKS

A. Cover Page

The Cover page should contain the following information:

(vii)

B.

Name of the Mining Plan and Mine Closure Plan /Final Mine Closure Plan

Indication, if it is a Modified Mining plan seeking approval under Rule 22E of MCR
1960, it should be marked as “Modified Mining Plan with Modification No” i.c. First
Modification, Second Modification etc.

Name of the Coal/Lignite Block area (Acre/Hectare/Sq. Km.)

 Name of the Coalfield and its location i.e. District and State

Name and address of the Applicant

Targeted capacity

a. Rated capacity > Mty)

b. Peak Capacity (@ 150% of the rated capacity) : in Mty,

Name of the Qualified person/ Accredited Mining Plan preparing agency
(MPPA)preparing the mining plan with details

Index of Chapters of the Mining Plan (Including Mine Closure Plan) / Mine
Closure Plan or Final Mine Closure Plan

SI

ES

Chapters aa

Checklist

Project Information

Exploration, Geology, Seam Sequence, Coal Quality and Reserve

_| Mining

Safety Management

Infrastructure Facilities proposed and their Location

Land Requirement

Environment Management

NO] S}NI D/A B]vl}r]o

Progressive & Final Mine Closure Plan

(viii)

Index for List of Annexure

Index of List of Plans/ Drawing Attached enclosed as Plates

List of Abbreviations used.

 All Plans must be colored distinctly with proper legends.

 e

Page 11 of 39

CHECKLIST

Details

(V/%)

i

Expert-review Report

Text

+

Project Information

Text

Exploration, Geology, Seam Sequence, Coal Quality and
Reserve

Text

Mining

Text

Safety Management

Text

Infrastructure Facilities proposed and their Location

Text

Land Requirement

Text

{
Environment Management

Text

Progressive & Final Mine Closure Plan

|=
Annexure

Copy of allotment order /Vesting order.

 Annexure

Certificate of Qualified person/ Accredited Mining Plan
preparing agency (MPPA)if the project area is confined
within the vested/allotted block boundary/existing mining
lease and

Where the project area extends beyond the block boundary,
a certificate of Qualified person/ Accredited Mining Plan
preparing agency (MPPA)should be supported with a
certificate of State Government mines and Geology
department must be attached, which should specify (a)
intent of the state government for grant of lease beyond the
vested geological boundary/existing mining lease: (b) non-
existence of Coal/ Lignite in the area beyond the
vested/allotted geological block boundary/existing mining
lease to rule out the issue of encroachment and use of coal
bearing area (beyond the  vested/allotted block

Annexure

boundary/existing mining lease) in the mining plan
|

Approval of the Company Board

Annexure

Copy of earlier approval of mining plan.

 Annexure

closure activities (progressive and final closure) with
duration of important activities

Plan / chart showing schedule of Implementation of Mine | _

Annexure

Mining Plan Preparing Agency (MPPA)

Expert-Review Report carried out be an Accredited |

é

_—

Page 12 of 39

Details

(V/%)

Annexure

Other document (if any)

Plates

Location plan

Plates

Plan certified by Qualified person/ Accredited Mining
Plan preparing agency (MPPA)if the project area is
confined within the vested/allotted block boundary/existing
mining lease and where the project area extends beyond
the block boundary, a Plan certified by Qualified person/
Accredited Mining Plan _ preparing agency
(MPPA)should be supported with a plan with cardinal co-
ordinates duly certified by the Mines and Geology
Department of the concerned State Government.

Plan in support of Annexure - II

Plates

Printed copy of the KML file superimposed in the recent
(not older than one year from the base date) dated satellite
Image duly certified by Accredited Agency should also be
attached.

 Note: The soft copy of the KML file shall also be part of
| the Soft copy of the mining Plan.

 Plates

Cadastral plan showing approved block boundary vis-a-vis
proposed/existing mining lease & Mine boundary
superimposed over it in distinct color, showing land use
and infrastructure etc..

Plates

Geological plan showing all the boreholes drilled and
proposed to be drilled showing allotted block boundary and
| tequired lease area

Plates

Representative Graphic Litholog

Plates

—
Surface Plan showing drainage system, Contour, preferably
at 3m interval, location of BH (borehole)

 Plates

Conceptual plan showing infrastructure facilities including
colony, boundary of mining area, mine entries, roads
including road diversion alignment ete.

 Plates

Tentative land use plan showing land type (Govt., forest
and tenancy land) with its data source

Plates

Floor contour plan and seam folio plan, iso-grade plan

Plates

Cross-section showing coal/lignite seam(s)

 Plates

Plan showing existing and proposed surface layout(s)

Plates

and stripping ratio (in case of opencast (OC) Mines)

 Plan showing total coal thickness and overburden thickness

Plates

Final stage quarry plan showing haul road alignment (in

case of OC Mines)

 Page 13 of 39

Details (V/%)

Plates Plan showing mode and location of entries and surface
layouts (in case of underground (UG) Mines)

Plates Layout of the panel for each system (like Longwall,
Continuous Miner, Bord& Pillar, road header etc.) should
be given (in case of UG Mines)

=
Plates Layout of pillar extraction (in case of UG Mines)
=

Plates Support system (in case of UG Mines) |

Plates Haulage and transport system (in case of UG Mines)

4 oe

Plates Post mining land use plan

Plates Progressive mine closure plan/ stage plans

ell
Plates Reclamation plan

E

Page 14 of 39

Chapter 1 : Project Information

Parameters

Details

INTRODUCTION

Name of Coal / Lignite
Block

[Name of the Coalfield/

Lignite Field

Base date of Mining Plan/
| Mine Closure Plan

Linked End Use Plant

—

Distance of End use plant
from the pit head of the
| project in “km”

Mode of Coal Transport

LOCATION, TOPOGRAPHY AND & COMMUNICATION

Location of coal deposit
(District and State)

1.2.2

Communication:

PwD |
_| roads, railway lines, Air _|

Availability — of
supply, water etc.

power

——!

b

1.2.4

Prominent physiographic
features, drainage pattern,
natural water courses,
rainfall data, highest flood

_| level

1,255

Important surface features
within the project area and
major diversion or shifting
involved

cs

DETAILS OF THE ALLO

TTMENT AGREEMENT

| Name the Allottee

Details of

allotment/vesting order

Name and address of the
applicant

Name of the Previous
allottee of the Block

_|_as per CMDPA

Starting Date of the Mine

Rated Capacity as
CMDPA

per

ee

Production Schedule as per
opening permission
(meeting provisions of
CMDPA if any)

End Use of Coal/Lignite as |

\A

Page 15 of 39

Parameters

Details

— _ per allotment order if any _

ID |

Latitude |

Longitude

°

Cardinal Points co- #2 "E
1.3.9 | ordinates of the Block D
boundary
_ > ” N ° > ” E
1.4 DETAILS OF THE PREVIOUS APPROVAL OF MINING PLAN
1.4.1 Date of Approval
1.4.2 _| Conditions, if any

1.4.3. | Scheduled year of start of

| production

1.4.4 | Proposed year of achieving

_| the targeted production

1.4.5 | Date of actual
commencement of mining
Operations, if operations

already started |

1.4.6 | Likely date of mining
Operations, if operations
not yet started & reasons
for non-commencement of

a operations

Planned production and
actual levels achieved in
last 3 years (Coal in Mte,

| Year

UG

Coal “Mte”

OB
MM?

SR

oc “MM?/te”

OB in MM’, SR_ in||
MM? /te)

—

i

Statutory obligations vis-
a-vis compliance status in
a tabular form

1.4.9 | Reasons for difference
between the planned and

actual production levels

PLAN

PARAMETERS OF APPROVED MINING PLAN VIS-A-VIS PROPOSED MINING

Approved Mining Plan

Proposed Mining Plan

ie
Block Area in “Ha”

| Block Area Projectised
“Ha”

Lease area “Ha”

Project Area “Ha”

+
Life of the Project “Yrs”

Minimum and Maximum
Depth of working “m”

\wo

Page 16 of 39
Parameters Details
1.5.7 | Net Geological Block |
| “Ha”
1.5.8 | Production Target
| “MTPA”
1.5.9 | Seams Available “As per |
| GR"
1.5.10 | Seams not considered for
Mining with Reasons
1 .5.11 | Gross Geological Reserve
“Mt”
1.5.12 | Net Geological Reserve
| “Mt”
1.5.13} Blocked Reserve “Mt” =
1.5.14 | Minable Reserve “Mt” iz
1.5.15 | Extractable Reserves
“Mt”
1.5.16_| % of Extraction/ recovery
1.5.17 | Reserve Depleted (till the
| base date) Reserves “ Mt”
1.5.18 | Balance Extractable >I
reserve “Mt” —
1.5.19 | Average Grade am
1.5.20 | OB in MM3
|_1.5.21_| SR MM3/te
1.5.22 | Mining Technology
1.5.23 | Coal Beneficiation ial
envisaged
1.5.24 | Handling of Rejects Dil.
 1.5.25 | Land use pattern “ Ha”
1 | Excavation Area lise
2 Top Soil Dump
= 3__| External Dump _ ae
4 Safety Zone
a) T Other Use ali
6 | Infrastructure area
[ronal Green Belt
8 | Undisturbed Area = at |
Total
1.5.26 | Reasons for revision
antl =

Page 17 of 39

Chapter 2 : Exploration, Geology, Seam Sequence, Coal Quality and Reserve

Parameters Details
2.1 | DETAILS OF THE BLOCK
D141 Particulars of adjacent blocks: North, South, | North: East:
all East, West _| South: West:
2.1.2 | Location of the Block
“| District / State |
2.1.3 | Area of the Block “Ha”
Area of the geological block projectized “in
2.1.4 | Ha” (Area of the geological block considered
for liquidation of coal reserve)
2.1.5 | Balance area yet to be projectized “Ha”
21.6 | Likely Reserve in the area yet to be
| projectized “Mte” |
Cardinal Point Co-ordinates of the non- Cardinal Points Co-ordinates of the
coal/lignite bearing area/existing mining | Proposed area outside the non-coal/lignite
lease outside the allotted Geological | bearing area outside the allotted Geological
Coal/Lignite block Coal/Lignite block
217 ; : | ID Latitude Longitude
aa (Duly certified in line with para 1.9 of the 1 oe 2 RANT a?
Guideline, if fresh inning lease required) yr) o>» N | 3
”N
=
Certificate of Qualified person/ Accredited Cardinal Points Co-ordinates of the
Mining Plan preparing agency (MPPA)if Proposed LeaseArea considered in the
the project area is confined within the Mining Plan
vested/allotted block —_ boundary/existing ID Latitude | _ Longitude
mining lease and [ 1 oN | E
2 Ss MN, I
Where the project area extends beyond the ea) os
block boundary, a certificate of Qualified L o 7? PN Ce
person/ Accredited Mining Plan preparing
agency (MPPA)should be supported with a
certificate of State Government mines and
Geology department must be attached, which Note: Certificate should be given on
2.1.8 | Should specify (a) intent of the state | conceptual plan envisaged in the proposed

government for grant of lease beyond the
vested geological boundary; (b) non-existence
of Coal/ Lignite in the area beyond the
vested/allotted geological block
boundary/existing mining lease to rule out
the issue of encroachment and use of coal
bearing area (beyond the vested/allotted block

boundary/existing mining lease) in the

mining plan

The Project area, Lease area and geological
block area in “Ha” shall also be envisaged.

 mining plan depicting OB area, infrastructure
locations and cardinal point co-ordinates of the
lease area, block area, project area;

 In case the project boundary extends beyond
the allotted geological block boundary/existing
mining lease certificate of non-occurrence of
coal should be clearly shown.

 Certificate should envisage that the Geo-
reference Co-ordinates considered _ for
preparation of Mining plan is in line with
Vesting/allotment order and does not encroach

é

ps

Page 18 of 39
Parameters

Details

any other adjacent block, and non-coal bearing |
certificate of the area in case any proposed
infrastructure or OB dump is outside the block
area;

KML file of the Proposed lease area, Project

geology, structure, stratigraphic sequence,
characteristics of the litho-logical units (coal

seams /partings/overburden).

 Aveaand geological block Note: Printed copy of the KML file
: superimposed in the recent (not older than one
year from the base date) dated satellite Image
duly certified by Accredited Agency should
also be attached.
 Note: The soft copy of the KML file shall also
be part of the Soft copy of the mining Plan.
 Whether the proposed project area is confined
2.1.19 | Within the allotted block boundary/existing
mining lease, if not, the reason for deviation
from allotted block boundary, may be given. |
If the project area extends outside the allotted
block  boundary/existing mining __ lease,
2.1.11 | confirmation about non-occurrence of
coal/lignite in the area under reference needs
to be furnished
2.1.12 | Type of the Project (Operating / under
Implementation) and year of Starting.
 22 EXPLORATION, GEOLOGY AND ASSESSMENT OF RESERVE
2.2.1 | Regional geological set up of the area, local

(In Maximum 500 Words)

kee

Local geology, Structure, Stratigraphic
sequence, Characteristics of the litho-logical
units (coal seams /partings/overburden).

 (In Maximum 500 Words)

2.2.3 | Geological Block Area “ Ha”

2.2.4 | Status of Exploration of the block

2.2.5 | Area covered by ‘detailed’ exploration within
the block (sq. km)

2.2.6 | Whether entire lease area has been covered by
‘detailed’ exploration.

 2.2.7__| No. of boreholes drilled within the block

2.2.8 | Whether any further exploration/study is

required or suggested and time frame in
which it is to be completed

2.2.9 | Year wise future programme of exploration

2.2.10 | Overall borehole density within the block
(no./ sq. km) approx

 2.2.11 | No of Seams available as per GR (Geological
Report)

 2.2.12 | Seams not considered for Mining with
Reasons

2.2.13 | Dip of the Seam

2.2.14_| Seam wise thickness, depth and reserve

g

Page 19 of 39

Parameters Details
mes | as. (See rey |, eel eee leet | aise [mee tne ac tne lenses
+ = =: —
= E Z| =
——e is E
=— Tae ponte a —

ae + = — fae VS iat ait TI Ss tig ney att is Tat

= —

es : £ = ——F =f +

Note : Break-up of the geological reserve for the block, considered in the proposed mining plan,
to be projected later and that likely to be sterilized to be given seam wise along with the relevant

| plans.
 2.2.15 | Methodology of reserves estimation (also
mention if any software package has been (In Maximum 500 Words)
used).
 | 2.2.16 ‘| Average GCV “KCal/kg” |

2.2.17_| Gross Geological Reserve of the block “Mte”

2.2.18 _| Net Geological Reserve of the block “Mte” |

2.2.19 | Minable Reserve of the block “Mte”

 [2.2.20 | Blocked Reserve “Mte “|
2.2.21 | Corresponding extractable reserve of the
block “Mte”
2.2123 | Percentage of Extraction |
2.2.23 | Reserve already depleted (Base date of
Mining Plan)
2.2.24 |_| Balance Reserve (as on Base Date) _ |

e

Page 20 of 39

Chapter 3: Mining

Parameters Details
3.1 MINING METHOD
3.1.1 | Existing method of mining |
if the mine is under
operation —
3.1.2 | Proposed method of | ¢ Seams to be worked, Choice of Mining Method and

mining with justification
on suitability of method of
mining

justification for Optimization of targeted capacity, sequence
of mining, production scheduling, equipment configuration
etc,

Behavior of coal roof & floor and support system for strata
control including, Geo-technical investigations, rock
mechanics study carried out already, if any, Scheme of mine
development in tandem with production, transport and
winding system in underground for coal and rock (if required)
and personnel; Sources of stowing material (if applicable)
Brief description of all operation e.g. winning, transport,
blasting, overburden removal and disposal, Life of the mine
furnishing the assumptions made and the detailed
computations

Location of Mine Opening: In case of opencast mines
location of Access trench & reason for selection of site
thereof the mining system (geometry and bench parameters
and its sequence of development, along with a drawing) and
quarry parameters (surface area, floor area), thickness range
of each seam and parting, minimum and maximum depth.
 Quarry stage plans including OB dumps for Ist year, 3rd year,
Sth year, year of achieving rated capacity of the mine, Final
year (ic. at the end of mine life) and post closure
subsequently, also indicating the volume of excavation for
coal and OB, area of excavation volume of internal and
external dump and the area, in hectare, for internal and
external dumps and height. Seam wise calendar programme
of excavation, timeframe for commencement of Backfilling &
justification therefor.

 In case of underground mining, number and location, length
& depth of shafts, inclines, and other mode of entries to be
shown in the plan, e.g. Shaft 1, Shaft -2 etc.), HFL of the area,
gassiness of the seams, Technology tie-ups if any.

Seams to be worked, method of working, optimization of coal
roof & floor and support system for strata control including,
Geo-technical investigations, rock mechanics study carried
out already, if any, Scheme of mine development in tandem
with production, extent of working for Ist year, 3rd year, 5th
year, year of achieving rated capacity of the mine, Final year
(i.e. at the end of mine life) and post closure, (all stages may
be marked in distinct color in the working plan of each seam),
transport and winding system in underground for coal and
rock (if required) and personnel; Sources of stowing material
(if applicable).

 __ |e Adequacy of ventilation _system_ taking into account the

Page 21 of 39

é

Parameters

Details

development works with — supporting
specifications of Main Mechanical
requirements and requirement of explos

requirements and standby arrangements.
 (In Maximum 2000 Words)

Ventilator,

calculations,
blasting

ives, pumping

3.1.3 | Coal production capacity
proposed “Mtpa”

=

for
Coal

3.1.4 | Justification
optimization

| production capacity _

(In Maximum 500 Words)

Calendar year from which
the production will start

Year of Achieving rated
production

Tentative Coal production Plan

“MT”

Year

Coal Production Schedule

Calendar |

Year

Year of

Operation

Total

UG oc
esl

SR

Up to 31.03.2019

Y-1 2019-20

Y-2

Y-3

el

Y-4

Y-5

:
=

1

Note: Calendar Plan / Production Plan for the entire life of the mine.

 8_| Rated Capacity “Mtpa”

By OC

By UG

Overall

i

3.1.9 | Life of the mine: “Years”

By OC

By UG

- Overall |

3.1.10 | Whether the proposed
external OB dump site is
coal/ lignite bearing: If so,
whether coal/lignite below
waste disposal area is

extractable.

 3.1.11 | Whether negative proving
for coal / lignite in the
proposed site for OB
dump/ infrastructure has

been done.

 Results of any |
investigation carried out
for scientific mining,
conservation of minerals
and__ protection of

3.1.12

Page 22 of 39
Parameters Details

| environment; future
roposals,

‘ve Type of Equipment/
HEMM proposed

Page 23 of 39
Chapter 4 : Safety Management

Parameters

Details

| Safety Management

Important safety |

aspects:

Major Risks and
uncertainties to the
project viz. Proximity to
river, adjacent working,
geo-mining disturbances,
slope stability — and
remedial measures
suggested.

 It should also include
proposed overall slope of
the quarry and OB dump,
dump height, strata
control, fire and
spontaneous heating, gas
monitoring, disaster
management, danger
from inrush of water ete.

 (In Max 500 Words)

A Commitment from the

Company Board _ that
entire mining operation
will be carried out as per
the Statutory provision
given under Mines Act
1952, Coal Mine
Regulation 2017 and &
wherever specific
permission will — be
required the company
will approach the
concerned authorities.

 (To be furnished as a Part of Annexure)

Taw

Page 24 of 39

Chapter 5 : Infrastructure Facilities

disposal of rejects.

 Parameters Details
Mine infrastructure |
required e.g. Equ ipment
maintenance _ planning,

5.1 | Office buildings, (Tabular Form)
Workshop, Power supply (Location to be shown in Conceptual Plan/Plates)
arrangement, Water

| supply ete.

 52. | Power supply & (Max 500 Words)

“| illumination. (Location to be shown in Plates)
Drainage & Pumping :
Assessment of Volume

5.3. | of Water for Pumping, 1 eee Winds) Ph
Pumping ‘Capecity and (Location to be shown in Plates)
 Pump Selection

5.4 | Coal Handling (Max 500 Words)
 Arrangement: Brief (Location to be shown in Plates)
detail of the CHP/ Mode
of Dispatch, Coal quality
and Coal staking and
handling arrangement

5.5 | Coal washing and the (Max 500 Words)
proposed handling/ (Location to be shown in Plates)

Annual Raw coal Feed plan and product with reduction in ash%
from feed to product must be furnished in a tabular form

é

Page 25 of 39

Chapter 6 : Land Requirement

Parameters Details
6.1 LAND REQUIREMENT
Break up of pre-mining land type (indicative) and source of data.
 Land Type Area
Agricultural |
Township _
 Grazing
B [_
Tenancy | atten _
Water Bodies
‘ . [ Road
Tota Land Tequirement for Community/other
6.1.1 | the mine in “Ha use
Agricultural
Govt Non | Township
Forest Grazing
Barren/other use
Reserve
Forest Protected
FreeHold
|—
Total
f During mining Land use details:
Land Use (Post Closure)
Land —
THe Land use Use | Agricul Public/ . .
 Type (Proposed) | (End of ah Plant | Water Company Forest Land Undist Total
Life) land ation Body Ues (Returned) urbed
i iE +— —
Excavation Area ice
>}
Backfilled Area __|
|_Excavated Void
| Without plantation __|
Top Soil Dump __ [ = ——
612 External Dump _ |
Safety Zone
Haul Road iz
between quarries
| Road diversion =|
Diversion/ below
River/Nala/canal L
Settli id |
Settling pon Ht}
Road &
Infrastructure area
Rationalization
area __ | —| —_
 Garland drains = ~
Embankment
fe Page 26 of 39
Parameters Details

=
Green Belt
Water Reservoir | = i

|_near pit |

UG entry 2 [i |
Undisturbed/
Mining right for
UG sil ———— B

Resettlement

Pit head power ~ | |
| plant

Water harvesting __ |

+— —} =a =e {_ {
Agricultural land

Total
S

6.13 urface features over the

block area
6.1.4 No. of villages/Houses to be
“| shifted
Population to be affected by
6S :
the project i=
6.1.6 Proposed Rehabilitation
_ rogramme

6.2 | DETAILS OF LEASE
6.2.1 | Status of Lease
6.2.2 | Existing Lease Area “Ha”
 6.2.3 | Period for which Mining
Lease has been granted/is to
be renewed/ is to be applied
for.
 6.2.4 | Date of expiry of earlier
| Mining Lease, ifany _ tic
6.2.5 | Whether the lease
boundary/ required
boundary is same as
mentioned in the allotment
order
6.2.6 | Lease Area —_(applied/
required) as per the Mining
Plan under consideration
(Ha)
6.2.7 | Whether the applied lease
area falls within the allotted
block |
6.2.8 | Area (Ha) of lease which
falls outside the delineated
Block — Boundary/Existing
Mining Lease
6.2.9 | Details of outside area:
Whether forms part of
_any other coal block
(] Whether it contains
any coal/lignite reserves
_|__ Purpose for which it is

Page 27 of 39

wy
Parameters

Details

required, e.g. roads/

OB dumps/ service
buildings/ colony/ safety
zone/ others (specify) __

 6.2.10

Whether some part(s) of
the allotted block has not
been applied for mining
lease.

- Total area in Ha of
such part(s).

 =

- Total reserves in such
part(s). (Mt)

ee

- Brief reasoning for

leaving such part(s)

Oo

Page 28 of 39
Chapter 7 : Environmental Management

Parameters

Details

ENVIRONMENTAL MANANGEMENT

7A

Commitment from the
project proponent that
the company will
comply Environment
and Forest Condition
stipulated in the
respective clearances

\ab

Page 29 of 39

Chapter 8 : Progressive & Final Mine Closure Plan

Parameters Details
8.1 | Land Degradation and restoration Schedule
Tentative Land Degradation and Technical Reclamation (Commutative Area "Ha")
 Land Degraded Technically Reclaimed Area
Year/Stage | ___ =
(Life of the Dump | Infra/ Dump
mine plus post | Excay ne | eae Total | Backfill | (x + Others | Total
closure period) Top Top
Soil) le Soil) fe
Up to Base
year * | =e
Y-1 19-20 = =| [ |
Y-3 21-22
+ a —
Y-5 23-24 aaa)
 Y-10 | 28-29 |
Y-15 | 33-34
8.1.1 [yao 7 a = = ar
=|
| Y-25 {
Y-30 an i
Y¥-33*
— +—
Post Closure =i
Rea | eee aan ——
Y-36 —_
*~ Considering Base year i.e. 2018-19 and life of 33 years in this case
Note: For the purpose of preparation of Stage plan and action plan for restoration and assessment of
life of mine and escrow account, the year in which any activity over the proposed land is envisaged,
should be considered as 1*' year i.e First year of development.
 Stages of reclamation and restoration of land should be given for 1°, 3" 5" and subsequently
every five year for the entire life of the project and for 3 years post closure.
 Tentative Biological Reclamation (Cumulative in “Ha”)
Year/Stage Biologically Reclaimed Area _| Un
(Life of the | Forest | Disturbed/
mine plus Public/ To be left
‘ , Water land Total
post Agriculture | Plantation Bod Company | Total Geren for
closure y Use Public/com
period) | Use
8.1.2 Up to Base
ear *
Y-1 2 19-20 = —t
Y¥-3 21-22 | [ |
¥-5 ES |
Y-10 | 28-29 |~ _ i
Y-15 33-34 | 1
¥-20 |

Page 30 of 39
Parameters

Y-25

Details

Y-30

| Y-33* |

Post

Closure

Y-36 |

Stages of reclamation and restoration of land should be given for 1°, 3", 5" and subsequently

every five year for the entire life of the project and for 3 years post closure.

 |

Post

Closure
Quality management:

Water

(Existing water bodies available in the lease hold area; Measures to
be taken for protection of the same including control of erosion,

(Max 200 Words)

8.2 sedimentation, siltation, water treatment, diversion of water course
if any; Measures for protection of contamination of ground water
from leaching etc;)

Post Closure Air Quality (Max 200 Words)

8.3. | management

8.4 | Waste Management (Figures in MM3) (Tentative)

Year/Stage | OB Removal External Dump Internal Embankment
(Life of the | (Cumulative) (Cumulative) Backfilling (Cumulative)
mine plus (Cumulative)
post closure | Top OB | Total Top OB Top OB Top OB
period) | Soil Soil | Soil Soil
Up to Base
ear* a
a a ah —=
= z =
Y-5 23-24 | a
——_— a
[¥-10 | 28-29 | == |
Y-15 | 33-34 a [_ L
Y-20 ez
Y-25 | =
Y-30
Y-33*
Post Closure [ a
Y-36

*~ Considering Base year i.e. 2018-19 and life of 33 years in this case

Stages at 1%, 3", 5" and subsequently every five year for the entire life of the project and for 3

years post closure

i

Page 31 of 39
Parameters Details

8.5 Top Soil Management — (Including Action plan for Top Soil management) (Tentative)
 (All Figures are Cumulative and in MM3)
 Year/Stage Top Soil Top Soil Used
(Life of the Removal | Spreading | Spreading Spreading | Usedin | Total
mine plus post Plan Over over over External | Green | Utilised
closure period) Embankment | Backfill OB Dump Belt
area area area
Up to Base ||
year *
Y-1 | 19-20 [ TT
Y-3 21-22
Y-5 | 23-24 [ [
Y-10 28-29
Y-15_ | 33-34
Y-20 [ [
Y-25 |
Y-30
Y-33* [ [
Post Closure
Y-36
 Stages at 1", 3™, 5" and subsequently every five year for the entire life of the project and for 3
_| years post closure
8.6 | Management of Coal | (Max 150 Words)
Rejects.
 Proposal regarding future maintenance and dismantling of
structures, slurry pond and rejects
8.7 | Restoration of Land used | (Infrastructure to be retained and to be dismantled are to be
for Infrastructure presented in a tabular form envisaging measures to be taken for their
physical stability and maintenance for the retained infrastructure
facilities)
8.8 | Disposal of Mining
Machinery _
8.9 Safety & Security Measures to be implemented to prevent access to surface
opening for underground working, excavation ete
8.10 | Abandonment Cost and Financial Assurance
8.10.1 | Abandonment Cost: Cost of Activities to be taken up for closure of the mine

a

aad

Page 32 of 39

Parameters Details
Head Unit) Quantity ge ai foes 5
Unit _|Cr’
Water quality management iy
Air quality management \s
Waste Management MCum [
Barbed wire fencing around dump m
Barbed wire fencing around the Pit m
Filling of Void - Rehanding of Crown Dump MN3 | ieee
Top Soil management MNB
roars cise [Technical and Biological Reclamation of Mined out of land and OB Dump Ha. 4
Plantation over virgin area including green belt Ha
Manpower Cost and supervision __ |
Toe Wall around the dump
Garland drain m
Garland Drain around the dump m
‘Any other Activi
Dismentaling of workshop ry
Rehabiltation of the dismentaled Facilties LS
ne of hope & Dismentaling of pumps and Pipes! other facilites 5 —L
Disposal rehabiltaion of Mining!) ismentaling of stowing bunker, provisioning of pumps for borewell pumping arrangement |
machinery = of ven pment : va =
Rearranging water pipeline to dump top park! Agricutural land LS
Dismentaling of Power lines
Barbed wire fencing around dump
Barbed wire fencing around the Pit m
Barbed wire fencing with masonary plas
Concrete wall with Masonalry pilars around the pit m
 Securing air shaft and installation of borewell pump
Securing of Incline |
Safety and security (Concrete wall fencing around the water bod
Boundary wall around the water body
Stabiisation( viz benching, pitching etc) of side walls of the water bod! ai
Toe Wall around the dump
Garland drain
Garland Drain around the dum,
Drainage Channel from main Ob dump
Filing of Void Ha
Top Soil management MM3
Technical and ~—_—Biologicall OB Rehandling for backfiling MM3
Reclamation of Mined out of land| Terracing, blanketing with soil and vegetation of Extemal OB Dumy Ha
land OB Dump Paripheral road, gates, view point, cemented steps on bank
Expenditure on development of Agricultural and
Landscaping and Plantation LS
Power Cost Ls
Post Mining Water quality management Ls
Post Closure management and/Post Mining Air quality management Ls =|
supervision Subsidence monitoring for 5 years Ls —
Waste Management ls —
Manpower Cost and supervision LS
Enterprenuership development (vocationalskill development training for sustainable income of affected people orcas
Golden Handshake / Retrenchment benefits to 100 employees of OC
Golden Handshake / Retrenchment benefits to 200 employees of UG
Others Onetime financial grant to societies / institutions lorganisations which is dependent upon the project;
Provide jobs in other mines of the company
Continuation of other services like running of schools etc.
 Total

fé Page 33 of 39
Parameters | Details

8.10.2 | Financial Assurance : Amount to be deposited in Escrow account as a security against the
mine activities to be carried out for the closure of the mine

WPI _as on 19 Amount to be deposited into Escrow
WPI as on base date * 19 Year oc year [uc | Total
Escalation rate of Closure cost
1 2.146 1 1,000 3.146)
UG oc [-2 2.254 z 1.050 3.304]
Base Rate of Closure Cost "Rs. Crs /Ha” 0.015 0.09 3 | 2.366 3 1103 [3.469
Closure Cost "Rs. Crs/Ha” LC 0.015 0.09 4 2.485 4 1.158 3.642|
Project Area 1000.00 885.53 5 2.609 3 1.216 3 al
 [Amount to be depostied into Escrow Account "Rs. in Crs" 15.00 | 79.70 rE 6 2.739 6 1.276 4.016]
7 2.876 7
 [Amount already deposited into Escrow Account Rs_in Crs” I 3 3.020 8
. 9 3.171 9
10 3.330 10
Rate of componding of Annual Closure Cost 5.00% 11 | 3.496
Balance Life of the project "in Yrs" a ==40 33 2 36 |
 [Annual Closure Cost, 100 | 2.146 FE} 3,854
("14 4,047
in Crs" 184.42 as | 4249
16 4.462
7 4.685
(“8 4.919
19 5.165
20 5.424
21 5.695
* Base date considered in the example is 01.04,2019 and the life of theOC mine considered is 33 years 2 5.979
and UG mine conisdered is 10 years. Rs 8.87 and RS S.0crs have been deposited in  escrow account for OC 23 6.278
and UG mine resepctively. 24 6.592
25 6.922 5.922]
26 7.268 .
 27 7.631

Total 171.839 12.578 | 184.417

Page 34 of 39

ANNEXURES

Parameters Details
I Copy of allotment order Mandatory Document Annexure - I
| ‘Vesting order.
 8 Certificate of Qualified Mandatory Document Annexure - II

person (QP) / Accredited
Mining Plan preparing
agency (MPPA)if _ the
project area is confined
within the  vested/allotted
block boundary /existing

mining lease area

Where the project area
extends beyond the block
boundary, a certificate of
Qualified person (QP)/
Accredited Mining Plan
preparing agency
(MPPA)should be supported
with a certificate of State
Government mines and
Geology department must be
attached, which — should
specify (a) intent of the state
government for grant of
lease beyond the vested
geological boundary; (b)
non-existence of Coal/
Lignite in the area beyond
the vested/allotted geological
block boundary/existing
mining lease to rule out the
issue of encroachment and
use of coal bearing area
(beyond the vested/allotted
block boundary/existing

mining lease) in the mining
plan

Note: Certificate should be given on
conceptual plan envisaged in the proposed
mining plan depicting OB area,
infrastructure locations and geo-reference
co-ordinates of the lease area, block area,
project area;

 In case the project boundary extends
beyond the allotted geological block
boundary certificate of non-occurrence of
coal should be clearly shown.

 Certificate should envisage that the
Cardinal Point Co-ordinates considered for
preparation of Mining plan is in line with
Vesting/allotment order and does not
encroach any other adjacent block, and
non-coal bearing certificate of the area in
case any proposed infrastructure or OB
dump is outside the block area;

The Project area, Lease area and
geological block area in “Ha” shall also be
envisaged.

 Hl

Approval of the Company
Board Approval: ,

Mandatory Document
Board approval must Specify:

e Approvals of Mining Plan form the
Board of the company giving
undertaking for correctness of data used
in preparation of Mining Plan;

e Details of the Qualified person (QP)/
Accredited Mining Plan preparing
agency (MPPA) with certification that
the eligibility of Qualified person/

Annexure - III

Page 35 of 39

Parameters

Details

Accredited Mining Plan preparing
agency has been verified.

 Acceptance of the Mining Plan by the
company board with recommendation
for approval;

Undertaking that the mine will be
developed as per the approval of the
mining plan from Ministry of coal and
all other approvals, as required will be
obtained from relevant authorities
Commitment that entire mining
operation will be carried out as per the
Statutory provision given under Mines
Act 1952, Coal Mine Regulation 2017,
EP Act 1986 and FC Act 1980 and &
wherever specific permission will be
required the company will approach the
concerned authorities.

 Financial Assurance for implementation
Undertaking that the reclamation &
rehabilitation work shall be carried out
in accordance with the approved Mine
Closure Plan and any modification
/amendments which may be made in the
mine Closure Plan by Ministry of Coal,
from time to time.

 Undertaking that the protective
measures contained in the mine closure
plan including reclamation and
rehabilitation works will be carried out
in accordance with the approved mine
closure plan and final mine closure plan
and undertake to submit a yearly report
before 1° July of every year to the Coal
Controller setting forth the extent of
protective and rehabilitative works
carried cut as envisaged in the approved
mine closure plans (Progressive and
Final Closure;

 Undertaking that they will obtain a
mine closure certificate from Coal
Controller to the effect that the
protective, reclamation and
rehabilitation works carried out in
accordance with the approved mine

fe

Page 36 of 39

Parameters Details
ail

closure plan/final mine closure plan and
will surrender the reclaimed land to the
State Government concerned.

 IV Copy of earlier approval of Mandatory Document Annexure - IV
mining plan.

 Vv Plan / chart — showing Mandatory Document Annexure - V
schedule of Implementation
of Mine closure activities
(progressive and final
closure) with duration of
important activities

VI Non-refundable Application Proof of the payment Annexure - VI
Eee
VII_ | Expert-Review Report | Carried out by Accredited Mining Plan | Annexure - VII
Preparing Agency (MPPA)
 VII | Other document (if any) Annexure - ...

fe

Page 37 of 39
PLANS/ PLATES

|__| Location plan
I Plan certified by Qualified person | Plan in support of Annexure - IT
(QP) / Aceredited Mining Plan
preparing agency (MPPA)if the | Note: Certificate should be given on
project area is confined within the | conceptual plan envisaged in the proposed
vested/allotted block boundary and mining plan depicting OB area, infrastructure
locations and cardinal Point co-ordinates of
Where the project area extends beyond | the lease area, block area, project area;
the block boundary, a Plan certified by
Qualified person (QP) / Accredited | In case the project boundary extends beyond
Mining Plan preparing agency | the allotted geological block boundary
(MPPA)should be supported with a | certificate of non-occurrence of coal should
plan with cardinal point co-ordinates | be clearly shown.
duly certified by the State Government
mines and Geology department. Certificate should envisage that the cardinal
point Co-ordinates considered for preparation
Plan in support of Annexure - IT of Mining plan is in line with
Vesting/allotment order and does not
encroach any other adjacent block, and non-
coal bearing certificate of the area in case any
proposed infrastructure or OB dump is
outside the block area;
Ill KML file of the Proposed lease area, Note: A printed copy of the KML file
Project Area and geological block. superimposed in the recent (not older than
one year from the base date) dated satellite
Image duly certified by Accredited Agency
should also be attached.
 The soft copy of the KML file shall also be
art of the Soft copy of the mining Plan.
 IV Cadastral plan showing approved
block boundary vis-a-vis
proposed/existing mining lease &
Mine boundary superimposed over it
in distinct color, showing land use and
| infrastructure ete.
 Vv Geological plan showing all the
boreholes drilled and proposed to be
drilled showing allotted —_ block
boundary and required lease area
VI Graphic Litholog
VII | Surface Plan showing drainage
system, Contour, at minimum 3m
interval, location of BH mal
VIII | Conceptual plan showing
infrastructure facilities including
colony, boundary of mining area, mine
entries, roads including road diversion
alignment etc
Ix Tentative land use plan showing land
type (Govt., forest and tenancy land)

e

pees

Page 38 of 39
with its data source
x Floor contour plan and seam folio
plan, ISO-grade plan
XI_| X-section showing coal/Lignite seams
XII} Plan showing existing and proposed
surface layout
OPENCAST (OC) MINES
XIII | Plan showing total coal thickness and
overburden thickness and_ stripping OC
ratio
XIV_| Final stage quarry plan showing haul
‘ OC
road alignment
UNDER GROUND (UG) MINES
XV_ | Plan showing mode and location of UG
entries and surface layouts |
XVI_ | Layout of the panel for each system
(like Longwall, Continuous Miner, UG
Bord & Pillar, road header etc,)\_
| XVI Layout of pillar extraction —_ UG
XVIII_| Support system UG =|
XIX__| Haulage and transport system [ UG
CLOSURE PLAN
XX_| Post mining land use plan
XXI__| Progressive mine closure plan/ stage || Year | Plate No
plan indicating stages at Ist,3rd, Sth, Ist
year of achieving rated capacity of the 3rd
mine and end of life (showing area, . Sth |
volume, dump height etc. for OC and ||" pre
seam-wise layout projects and
ventilation system in UG)
XXII_| Reclamation plan

A

Page 39 of 39
F. No. 34011/28/2019-CPAM
Government of India
Ministry of Coal
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi
The 29" May 2020

Office Memorandum

modification in the mining plan.

 Undersigned is directed to state that the mining plan or any modification in the
mining plan submitted for approval in pursuance of clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section
5 of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957) read
with rule 22B of the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960, shall be accompanied with a non-
refundable application fee of Rs.25,000 /- (Rupees T wenty Five Thousand only) per square
kilometer, or part thereof for the project area specified in the mining plan.

 The non-refundable fee shall be deposited in the Consolidated Fund of India, in
the Head of Account: 08030080000000 (other receipts). The deposit is to be made through
Bharatkosh portal.

 This order shall come into force with immediate effect from the date of
notification of the Mineral Concession (Amendment) Rules, 2020.

 de

a
(Hitlar Singh)
 Under Secretary to the Government of India

To,

All the existing Coal and Lignite block allocates.

 Copy to: -

1.All Joint Secretaries, MoC.

 2.Coal Controller, Coal Controller's Office, 1- Council House Street, Kolkata.

 3.CMD, CIL, Newtown, Rajarhat, Kolkata-700156, W.B.

4.CMD, NLCIL, Cuddlore, Distt. Neyveli- 607801 (Tamil Nadu).

 5.CMD, Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL), Kothagudem Collieries,
Khammam Distt.(A.P).

 6. Tech. Director (NIC) - with the request to place it to Website of the Ministry of Coal.
 Cast Fo To WeIo-33004/99 REGD. NO. D.L.-33004/99

ara a

o ort
The Gazette of India

EXTRAORDINARY

am [l—avg 3—30-Que (ii)
PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (ii)

writer & wetter
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY
a 338) we facet, qerare, watt 11, 2015/ATs 22, 1936
 No. 338] NEW DELHI, WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2015/MAGHA 22, 1936
wae Ware

ag facet, 11 Fea, 2015
LM, 428(31)— PA WAN, WAIN HITE GM (faery sree) fects steareer, 2014 Hl IMT 7 Bt SI-AMT (2)
 Ta Wed Vara chr War He SU Sad Sea wt aE A Frafead dee aed @, saiq:—

saa A, wa. 59 ok saa dafea vfafteai GF area frafatiad #4 deaie ak yates witet wret,
aatg—
oe. Heed GMa yd stadt ar aa wa wel Hae al Grecia fer e
wl A
60 freq va agit ode we faa ate ode

va (fae GA
6. are fret aT é)

2 ERS arene we forge are ICL

63 HRT (See) aaiee are FTA ufeaa amet

64 ART IL Wea wets user ata facet, eta FEA WERT
 Te SRR arated fefaes

65 WIR F US ST care foe fra fete: aes

66 TI Ue, GaeL- 1 odrane utara face fra fate ode

67 TE TAIT ares ret FT EICCu

68 Ht pr fara Saez arater, sitfear
Gifeadt siteifires dala fernra
ud fron frre fafies

 [UI a 13016/9/2014-4t@-IIT ]
fade aga, Wyat afaa

733 GI/2015
2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [Part II—Sec. 3(ii)]

MINISTRY OF COAL
NOTIFICATION
New Delhi, the 11th February, 2015

8.0. 428(E).—In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 7 of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions)
Second Ordinance, 2014, the Central Government hereby makes the following modification in Schedule -Ill of the said
Ordinance, namely:—

In Schedule-Ill, after serial number 59 and the entries relating thereto, the following serial numbers and entries shall be
added, namely :—

SL Name of Coal Mine/_ — Name of Prior Allottee State where Coal Mine/Block Located
No. Block

60 & 61 Gidhmuri & Paturia(to Chattishgarh State Electricity Chhattisgarh
be mined together) Board

a Banhardih Jharkhand State Electricity Jharkhand

Board
Kasta (East) Damodar Valley Corporation West Bengal

4 Mara II Mahan NCT of Delhi, Haryana Power Madhya
Generation Corp. Ltd. Pradesh

65 Rajbar E & D Tenughat Vidyut Nigam Limited = Jharkhand

6 6 Gare Pelma, Sector-I | Chhattisgarh Mineral Chhattisgarh
Development Corporation
Limited

67 Saharpur Jamarpani Damodar Valley Corporation Jharkhand

68 Naini Gujrat Mineral Development Orissa

Corpora tion, Pondichery
Industrial Promotion
Development and Investment
Corporation Limited

[F. No. 13016/9/2014-CA-IIT]
VIVEK BHARADWAJ, Jt. Secy.

Printed by the Manager, Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054.
 fan RA wane

MP9S/15/2023-MP5S

/32982/2023

F. No.- MPS/15/2023-MPS [E-357423]
Government of India
Ministry of Coal
[MPS Section]
Room No. 622-A, Shastri Bhawan,
New Delhi, Dated: 11-09-2023

Office Memorandum

Subject: Flexibility in scheduled coal production subject to the approved
rated capacity - clarification regarding.

 Ministry of Coal is in receipt of the request for flexibility in coal production up
to approved rated capacity. The matter was examined by the Ministry and it is
hereby clarified as under:

"The project proponent can have flexibility for increase in annual coal
production ahead of the scheduled production, as per the approved Mining Plan.
 This flexibility for increase in coal production shall be maximum up to the approved
coal production capacity. "

2. The above is subject to fulfillment of following conditions, that the project
proponent shall -

a. Obtain requisite permissions, clearances, etc under any other law, guidelines
or stipulations in force;

b. Undertake requisite safety, environmental and other measures
commensurate with the increased coal production.

 This issues with the approval of the competent authority.

 Se a Regi a
~ (Sanjeev-Ranjan)
 Under Secretary to the Govt. of India)

 To,
1. All Coal Companies
2. CCO, New Delhi
F.No. 43022/1/2020-LAIR
Government of India
Ministry of Coal
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi — 110 001.
 Dated: 30! September, 2022
OFFICE MEMORANDUM

Subject: Constitution of Empowered Committee for clarification on Policy
Guidelines for leasing of land acquired under Coal Bearing Areas
(Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957- reg.

 With the approval of Union Cabinet dated 13!" April, 2022, Ministry of Coal has
issued a Policy Guidelines on 224 April, 2022 for leasing of land acquired under Coal
Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 4957 (copy enclosed). As per this
Policy Guidelines only the following types of lands will be considered:

a) Lands which are no longer suitable or economically viable for coal mining
activities; or

b) Lands from which coal has been mined out / de-coaled and such land has been
reclaimed.

 2. In compliance of decision of Union Cabinet dated 13" April 2022, with the
approval of Competent Authority, it has been decided to constitute an Empowered
Committee for clarifications on Policy Guidelines for leasing of land acquired under
Coa! Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957. The Committee will
have the following Members:

|. Additional Secretary, Ministry of Coal - Chairperson
Il. Joint Secretary, Ministry of Coal - Member
lll. Joint Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs = Member
IV. Concerned Adviser, NITI Aayog - Member

3. The terms of reference of the Committee shall be as follows:

 i. Recommending clarifications on Policy Guidelines for leasing of land;

ii, | Recommending development activities for leasing of land that are related to the
activities mentioned in para 4 (5) of the said Policy Guidelines and connected
to the coal and energy related infrastructure in general, in addition to the
activities specified in the Policy Guidelines, as referred by the Ministry of Coal.

iii. | Any other work related to this land use policy assigned by the Ministry of Coal.

 Asem

(Ram Shiromani Saro})
DIRECTOR
Tel. No. 011-23380026
 To,
_ Additional Secretary, Ministry of Coal.
~ Joint Secretary (LA&IR), Ministry of Coal.
_ Joint Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs [through Secretary, DEA].
" Adviser, NITI Aayog (looking after Ministry of Coal) [through CEO, NITI
Aayog].

 AON >

Page 1 of 2
Copy to:

PS to Hon'ble Minister of Coal, Mines and Parliamentary Affairs.
 PS to Hon'ble Minister of State for Coal, Mines and Railways.
 PSO to Secretary (Coal).

 PS to AS &NA/ PS to JS&FA

Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs.

 CEO, NITI Aayog.

 Joint Secretary (Cabinet), Cabinet Secretariat.

Director, PMO.

 Chairman-cum-Managing Director, CIL.

 CMD, BCCL/CCL/ECL/MCL/NCL/SECLIWCL.

 STD, NIC, Ministry of Coal - for uploading this OM on the website of Ministry of
Coal.

tke

Page 2 of 2
No. 43022/1/2020-LAIR
Government of India
Ministry of Coal

Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi — 110001.
Dated: 224 April, 2022

OFFICE MEMORANDUM

Sub. Policy Guidelines for use of land acquired under the Coal Bearing Areas
(Acquisition & Development) Act, 1957.

 Ministry of Coal have been receiving requests for leasing of land acquired under
the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition & Development) Act, 1957 (‘the CBA Act’) for
multiple purposes that are ancillary to coal mining. Many activities in coal mines are
performed by the private sector under different models of development and financing
as per the decisions of the Board of the Government Coal Companies. It is felt
expedient to formulate a policy to provide land on lease to other CPSUs, State
Governments (including its PSUs) and private entities to set up coal related
infrastructure development on CBA acquired land.

 2. Accordingly, with the approval of the Union Cabinet dated 13th April, 2022, it
has been decided that lands acquired under the CBA Act may be considered for
granting on lease by the land owning Public Sector Undertakings (‘PSUs’)/ coal
company to other CPSUs, State Governments (including its PSUs) and private entities
for development of coal infrastructure and other development activities without change
in ownership of the lands.

 3. Leasing of the land for the purpose of setting up of infrastructure relating to coal
and other development infrastructure shall ensure use of de-coaled/idle land for the
welfare of the project affected persons, energy sector and environmental upgradation.
 Such use of these lands will boost industrial activity in the nearby areas and generate
employment.

 4. The leasing of lands shall be in accordance with the following Policy

Guidelines and Terms and Conditions:
(1) Only the following types of lands will be considered:

(a) Lands which are no longer suitable or economically viable for coal mining
activities; or

(b) Lands from which coal has been mined out / de-coaled and such land has
been reclaimed.

 (2) Before considering the land for leasing out, a certificate from Central Mine Planning
and Design Institute Limited (CMPDIL) shall be obtained stating that the land which
is being considered for leasing fulfills the conditions mentioned in clause (1) above.

 (3) Board of the land-owning coal company shall also record how the land which is
being considered for leasing fulfill the conditions mentioned in clause (1) above
and reasons for considering such land for leasing out.

 Page 1 of 5

nen
(4) The Board of the Company shall be the competent authority to approve all land

lease proposals as per this Policy.

 (5) The lands will be considered for the following coal infrastructure development

(6)

(7)

(8)

(9)

(10)

(11)

activities and for such period of lease as mentioned against each activity:
(a) to set up Coal Washeries (maximum lease period 30 years);
(b) to set up Conveyor Systems (maximum lease period 30 years):
(c) to establish Coal Handling Plants (maximum lease period 30 years);
(d) to construct Railway Sidings (maximum lease period 30 years);

(e) Rehabilitation and Resettlement of Project Affected Families due to
acquisition of land under the CBA (A&D) Act, 1957 or other land acquisition
laws (maximum lease period 99 years);

(f) to set up thermal and renewable power projects (maximum lease period 35
years);

(g) to set up or provide for coal development related infrastructure including
afforestation (maximum lease period 99 years), hospitals (maximum lease
period 99 years), project office (maximum lease period 30 years), etc.

(h) to provide Right of Way (in case of railway line and highways 99 years, and
in other cases maximum lease period 30 years or life of infrastructure
whichever is lower);

(i) Coal gasification and coal to chemical plants (maximum lease period 35
years);

(j) Coal bed methane (CBM) extraction (maximum lease period 30 years or as
may be allowed by the Government to the CBM concession holder); and

(k) to set up or provide for energy related infrastructure.

 Ministry of Coal can issue directions to reduce or increase the lease period
depending upon necessity, ground realities and specific nature of the project.

 Leasing out of the land to private entities for above proposed activity shall be
through a transparent, fair and competitive bid process and mechanism in order to
achieve optimal value.

 A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) / agreement will be signed between
beneficiary organization/ lessee and concerned land owning PSU (Government
company).

 Beneficiary organization / lessee will ensure that land is used for the purpose for
which it was provided to them. Utilization of land for any other purpose shall lead
to cancellation.

 Coal company shall be empowered to impose penalty on beneficiary organization/
lessee as may be specified in the MoU/ lease agreement.

 Board of concerned coal company will fix lease rent as per prevalent rules and
regulations. The revenue from the proposed activity (s) on lease of land by a Coal
Company shall accrue to concerned Coal Company.

 Page 2 of 5
(12)

(15)

(16)

(17)

(18)

(19)

(20)

On completion of work or on expiry of lease, the CBA lands would be returned to
the land-owning PSU/ Central Government without any claim and free from all
encumbrances without the infrastructure built thereon by the lessee/ beneficiary
organization.

 Existing washeries, if any, which were established by the PSUs and private entities
on allotment/ auction basis and have not completed the maximum lease period are
also included in the instant policy regarding land use.

 Right of Way permission shall include non-coal uses such as laying pipelines/
conveyors and other miscellaneous public utility uses such as gas pipelines,
drinking water pipelines, railway lines, telephone lines, transmission lines, roads
and highways, etc. on rent basis to other PSUs, State Governments (including its
PSUs) and private entities.

 All the applicable terms and conditions mentioned in the instant Policy Guidelines
shall be necessarily included in the MoU/ agreement.

 Right of Way shall not be transferable or inheritable right. It shall not constitute any
right or title in favour of beneficiary organization/ lessee, except as specified in the
MoU.

 In case, a land owning PSU (Government company) invites investment in related
infrastructure for providing services to the coal company itself, a lease rent may be
charged for allowing use of land from the lessee. In such case, the coal company
may allow some flexibility to the lessee for providing surplus services to entities
other than the land owning coal company.

 In those cases where the infrastructure is not being created at the instance/
invitation of the coal company but sought to be created by a coal consumer, then
annual rent for the ‘Right of Way’ may be decided by the Board of the concerned
coal company keeping in mind the commercial advantage of such arrangements.
 It shall not const itute or create any right of easement.

 The lease may include mortgageable rights for the PSU/ State Governments/
private entities only over the assets of the lessee and rights, title or interest created
in favour of the lessee under the MoU/ agreement in order to make the project
viable. The basis for lease rental may be clearly provided by the PSU in the bidding
document. The financial decisions with regard the PSU shall be taken by the Board
of the PSU, which shall take into consideration above mentioned conditions and
guidelines issued by the Central Government.

 The Memorandum of Understanding (MoU)/ agreement signed between
beneficiary organization/ lessee and concerned land owning PSU shall clearly
specify the following:

(a) Ownership of the land shall always remain vested with the land owning PSU
and any creation of charge or mortgage over the assets of the lessee and on
the lease rights shall not affect the ownership of the land owning PSU over such
land.

 (b) The MoU/ agreement or rights, title or interest created in favour of the lessee
under the MoU/ agreement shall not be assigned by the lessee to any person
save and except with the prior consent in writing of the land owning PSU, which

(ve

Page 3 of 5
consent the land owning PSU shall be entitled to decline without assigning any
reason.

 (c) Mortgages/ pledges/ hypothecation over the goods/ assets or rights, title or
interests of the lessee may be created by the lessee in the ordinary course of
business and as security for securing Financial Assistance, provided that such
charge shall not be effective before Financial Close and shall not continue for
a period exceeding the period of lease.

 (21) While setting up of coal washeries, the beneficiary organization/ lessee shall make
adequate provision for proper management/ treatment of waste water generated
from them and its reuse, wherever possible, should be made. Further, the
mechanism for washing of coal should be such that there is no contamination/
pollution of ground water or surface water.

 (22) In the case of Rehabilitation and Resettlement projects for Affected families,
provisions of adequate sanitation facilities (including Community Sanitary
Complexes) may be essentially made to ensure that such habitations/ colonies are
always Open Defecation Free, and that No One is Left Behind in having access to
a toilet. Along with sanitation facilities, individual household tap connections may
be provided in pursuance of Jal Jeevan Mission objective.

 (23) While finalizing the land use planning, adequate provisions for ensuring drinking
water security by way of rainwater harvesting/ groundwater recharge by utilizing
existing natural detention basins in the area by executing adequate drainage works
shall be ensured by the beneficiary organization/ lessee.

 (24) The area being planned to be leased should not have overlap with any of the
existing CBM/ PSC/ DSF/ OALP blocks granted by Ministry of Petroleum & Natural
Gas, except in case where lease is being granted for CBM extraction.

 (25) The directions/ conditions contained in the vesting order issued under section 11(1)
of the CBA Act will be suitably amended to empower the Government Companies
to grant lease for coal and energy related developmental activities in accordance
with these Policy Guidelines issued by the Ministry of Coal, Government of India.

 5. This is issued with the approval of the Competent Authority.

 arlajre
(M. Nagaraju)
Additional Secretary to the Government of India
Tel: 011-23383356

 To,

1. Chairman, Coal India Limited, Coal Bhawan Premise No. 4 MAR, Plot No. AF-
Ill, Action Area — 1A, Newtown, Rajarhat, Kolkata — 700156.

 2. Director Technical, Coal India Limited, Coal Bhawan Premise No. 4 MAR, Plot
No. AF-III, Action Area — 1A, Newtown, Rajarhat, Kolkata — 700156.

 3. Chairman-cum-Managing Director, Bharat Coking Coals Limited, Kolya
Bhawan, Koyla Nagar, Dhanbad — 826005.

 Page 4 of 5
4. Chairman-cum-Managing Director, Central Coalfields Limited, Darbhanga
House, Kutchery Road, Ranchi — 834 029.

 5. Chairman-cum-Managing Director, Eastern Coalfields Limited, Sanctoria, P.O.
Dishergah — 713 333.

 6. Chairman-cum-Managing Director, Mahanadi Coalfields Limited, Jagriti Vihar,
Burla, Odisha — 768 020.

 7. Chairman-cum-Managing Director, Northern Coalfields Limited, Singrauli,
Madhya Pradesh.

 8. Chairman-cum-Managing Director, South Eastern Coalfields Limited, Seepat
Road, Bilaspur, Chhattisgarh — 495 006.

 9. Chairman-cum-Managing Director, Western Coalfields Limited, Coal Estate,
Civil Lines, Nagpur — 440 001.

 10.Chairman-cum-Manging Director, Central Mine Planning & Design Institute
Limited (CMPDIL), Gondwana Place, Kanke Road, Ranchi — 834031.

 11.Coal Controller, Coal Controller's Organization, Ministry of Coal, Scope Minar,
5" Floor, Core-ll, Laxmi Nagar, Delhi - 110092.

 12.CMDs/MDs of all other Central Public Sector Undertakings/ State Public Sector
Undertakings who has acquired/ is being acquired land for coal mining
purposes under CBA (A&D) Act, 1957.

 13.Senior Technical Director (NIC), Ministry of Coal — with request to upload this
OM on website of Ministry of Coal.

Copy for information to:

i. Shri S.G.P. Verghese, Joint Secretary, Cabinet Secretariat, Rashtrapati

Bhawan, New Delhi.

ii. | Shri R. Vyasan, Director, Prime Minister's Office, South Block, New Delhi.

 iii. | PSO to Secretary (Coal), Ministry of Coal, Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi.

iv. PPS to Additional Secretary and Nominated Authority, Ministry of Coal, Shastri
Bhawan, New Delhi.

 v. Joint Secretary & Financial Adviser, Ministry of Coal, Shastri Bhawan, New
Delhi.

 vi. Chief Secretaries of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat,
Jharkhand, Meghalaya, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Nagaland, Odisha,
Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.

 214 lr Lv
(M. Nagaraju)
 Additional Secretary to the Government of India
Tel: 011-23383356

Page 5 of 5
(art U—wre 3(ii)]

UNA HT UTA : Vee 13, 2019/8THS 22, 1941

4925

alte Fart
ae fees, 28 oT, 2019

TST. 1211.—sIcarat afefraH, 1948 (1948 sr 63) AT ae 2 * UvE (s) H WTA Teg aS

(iii) GT Tee areRat Be erepereor H the aca Par ferenr Bh ators (3) F PAfSw arferearPeat a sen arferar
aia (2) # ite croadt ear fathes (arfteréua), freer delta arate vers aa, 4. 8, Fax
aaratd Ue, wnat, WH aire ate GS ara ats efear, Ack], Ars-600031 2, dale
Beary aerar chaty  “atequra’ her F vag Mae ads, sate:
wat | SETA acheaty aT ATT ata & er F gen afar a TT
(1)__ | (2) (3)
01. : are fereqet ae-l are fereqe Sa-| ST Aer vaern/AeT vetera/qeT FET
warp
02. | ara feaa Fel fae amt fla tal fae B sy wer yeeaa/aeT
weern/yer Wer weer
03, | area fee eH are fee tall So Her vetera/AeT waerH/ST FET
water
04. | ary faea a- Il fee amt free aa Il flea & ST wer vetera/aer
05. jaar qa faqe ota | wrest & oo wer vdenaer vdea/qer ver
(Maret) weer
07 60 VATS Het Mert HT 60 wae wet Met Het ST Aer weera/AET
weerh/ Ter HET Wee
os. | 30 Wauast argite dias eters eat | 30 Tauest aragite dae sited daa oo eT
Weaern/AEl Wah eT HET Wetereh
09. | Aeqhraftr ais fare fRfaert Aeqarator até fare fefaora oo wer vetern/aer
weaern/yed Hel Tae
10. | den ahertaey atta are den whatweg afta afte sa wer weera/Aer
11. | Geer gether Roa att tea gattena Pac aig he oT wer veern/AeT
weaterh/ Fer TET Wah
12. | ata crane aig, afta ait creme ats, =q afta & oo wer vaternae
Waern/Her Hel Taterp
13. | fheva aféfththe aracert sitrere, =| fhete aféfthe stacgra sieves, = afte aie,
afte afc, ative Steet cRar divs Stiset afta or rer weerarel wera TeT
Fel weer
14. | aa feat ae feat ST HET Me erH/ AT WAH TST HET Tae
15. | aréehé-fSfaorm, afta gfe argdié-fefacm, = afte afte oa wer veera/rer
werner Hel Weer
16. | fart afd, ectin-10 Fat atey, sorts-10 2 So wer vetera/aeT Weer eT
Po RT ET
17, | fart atet, ecrth-01 fat att, oorts-01 Fh ST Fer waternyaeT vaera/qer
Fel veer
18. | acferax aa faa the attrac amg faga te & so wer yeern/near
weer Tet Fel Wale

4926 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 13, 2019/ASADHA 22, 1941 [PART II—SEC. 3(ii)]

19, | areca fae oats (ware) | taaet ate fae Rata (vacate ot Aer
ECR EE EEED Hel seer

20. |aaaett aes wear fees | aac aeag oe fetes (wretiva) & oT Ae
(wade) yaera/rel weeraqer ver sdeaqer ator
arferaret

2. meme ua veer Peers, wrverdt fear fates deafaa vet & fore te afeearRal, fers serps
arcarat & arrqarax ea F yearhtre fear sar &, Ht aa Ge aria Her & fore wergrer orf SI

(oT. &. 38026/1/2013-eTT-I]
ae Tax, Hat aPIT
MINISTRY OF COAL
New Delhi, the 28th June, 2019

S.O. 1211.—In pursuance of the powers, conferred by clause (iii) of the first proviso to clause (n) of Section 2
of the Factories Act, 1948 (63 of 1948), the Central Government hereby appoints officers specified in column (3) of the
Table below as “Occupier” of the respective factory or workshop of NLC India Limited (NLCIL), specified in column
(2) of the said Table having its registered office at First Floor, No. 8, Mayor Sathyamurthy Road, FSD, Egmore Complex
of Food Corporation of India, Chetpet, Chennai-600031, namely:-

Name of Factory/ Workshop Designation(s) of Officer, appointed as Occupier
No.
a)

(2)
 [or friemat Power Stiont alae St theamal Pee Sena NESS Gener
[02 [thermal Power Stations Expansion «peut General Manaue ener spranagerChiet General
[0 fihematrowerStonstt dager Trnat Power Sion
| 04 [thermal Power Staion-IExpansion __(ePu_ General, Managed General | ManagerChiet Genera
[os FNeyrell, New Thermal Power Projet eputy General Manager/General Manager/Chief General
(NNTPP) Manager of NNTPP
[07 \soMLD Water Treatment Plant eee et one Pa Het General
[08 f03MLD Modem Sewage Testment Plant PePUY General Managu/Goneral | Mansgu/Chief Genera
9 |

. . [Deputy General Manager/General Manager/Chief General
anufacturing Yard Precast Division IManager of Manufacturing Yard Precast Division

‘ [Deputy General Manager/General Manager/Chief General
| 10 Central. Workshops\/ New Service Unit IManager of Central Workshops / New Service Unit
; . [Deputy General Manager/General Manager/Chief General
fa foentra Electrical Repair Shop Manager of Central Electrical Repair Shop

05
07
10
12 [Deputy General Manager/General Manager/Chief General
13
14
15
16

Auto Transport Yard, New Service Manager of Auto Transport Yard, New Service

 [Deputy General Manager/General Manager/Chief General

: : IManager of Fitness Certificate Overhaul Complex, New Service
Service Unit, Old B&C area. Unit, Old B&C area

Bus Depot [Deputy General Manager/General Manager/Chief General
IManager of Bus Depot

‘itness Certificate Overhaul Complex, New

[Deputy General Manager/General Manager/Chief General

53% [Deputy General Manager/General Manager/Chief General
ECE Division, New Service Unit Manager of ICE Division, New Service Unit

Mini Auto, Block-10 Manager of Mini Auto, Block-10

ini Auto, Block-01 Depu

General Manager/General_Manager/Chief General

4927

UN AT WTA : WRN 13, 2019/87 HS 22, 1941
Manager of Mini Auto, Block-01
[Deputy General Manager/General Manager/Chief General
Manager of Barsingsar Thermal Power Station
[Deputy General Manager/General Manager/Chief General

Manager of Neyveli Solar Power Project (NSPP)
 [Deputy General Manager / General Manager / Chief General

(am I—avre 3(ii)]
Barsingsar Thermal Power Station
leyveli Solar Power Project (NSPP)
0 \Neyveli Tamil Nadu Power Limited (NTPL) | |Manager/ Chief Executive Officer of Neyveli Tamil Nadu
Power Limited (NIPL)
 [F. No. 38026/1/2013-CA- I]
ALKA SHEKHAR, Under Secy.

 The Chairman-cum-Managing Director of NLC India Limited is hereby authorized to nominate by name such
officers to th e respective positions, who are designated as occupiers of the factories, as indicated above.

 2.
